Biden and Netanyahu escalate their war of words as hopes for a Gaza ceasefire crumble. Plus, how the rapid spread of AI is threatening college-educated professionals.All of this is then fueling a lot of predictions, some ominous, some optimistic, about what gen AI does to corporate roles. Companies are thinking, "Hey, what could gen AI do to change how a lot of white-collar professionals work?"And US investors start to circle TikTok ahead of a key vote in Congress to potentially ban the app or force a sale. It's Monday, March 11th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal and here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. Tensions are deepening between President Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu after the two leaders over the weekend presented conflicting assessments of Israel's conduct in its war with Hamas. Appearing on MSNBC's "The Saturday Show," Biden warned that an Israeli attack on the southern Gaza City of Rafah would cross a red line, and he accused Netanyahu of jeopardizing Israel's international support through its actions in Gaza.He must, he must pay more attention to the innocent lives being lost as the consequence of the actions taken. In my view, he's hurting Israel more than helping Israel by making the rest of the world it's contrary to what Israel stands for, and I think it's a big mistake.Netanyahu responded yesterday telling Politico that he didn't know exactly what Biden was referring to, but that quote, "If he meant by that I'm pursuing private policies against the wish of the majority of Israelis and that this is hurting the interests of Israel, then he's wrong on both counts." Journal correspondent Dov Lieber told me that the increasing frostiness between Biden and Netanyahu comes amid a failure to secure a ceasefire before the start of the Muslim Holy month of Ramadan and as a US military ship sets sail from Virginia to facilitate the flow of aid in tag Gaza. Another reason we might see these two fighting in public is that they both have a political interest to fight in public now. For Netanyahu, many in his base and his right wing like to see him standing up to foreign powers, standing up for Israel's interests. And for Biden, it's no secret that there are many parts in the Democratic Party and especially the progressive side who want this war to be over yesterday. And to see Biden scrapping it with Netanyahu in public demanding that the Israelis do more to get humanitarian aid into Gaza is potentially a good look for Biden for his political base.  So Dov, is it just posturing then, or could we be seeing a meaningful wedge being driven here between these two allies? This is a very, very good and important question. President Biden, in his interview that you quoted, he seemed to hint that he could in some ways block the flow of offensive weaponry from the United States to Israel. Though he wasn't very clear about that threat, although he intimated that the United States could do that while at the same time he said he would never leave the Israeli people alone. At the end of the day, President Biden, Prime Minister Netanyahu have known each other for four decades. Maybe they feel comfortable taking knots at each other because they've known each other for so long, but we will have to see how this personal relationship unfolds in the coming weeks. It could potentially affect the outcome of this war and how things look moving forward. In Washington, a congressional crackdown on TikTok has spun into high gear ahead of an expected vote Wednesday on a bill that would force its Beijing based parent ByteDance to divest itself from the app or see it banned in the US. While ByteDance has said separating the US portion of its app wouldn't be practical and would undercut its global appeal, US tech and media titans have nevertheless been circling. Former Activision CEO Bobby Kotick has reportedly expressed interest in buying TikTok if ByteDance agrees to sell and is looking for partners for a deal. Any price tag is expected to be in the hundreds of billions of dollars. And US markets have found their new champions, and it's not big tech. With heavyweights like Apple and Tesla sinking this year, a larger group of companies has helped to power recent gains and lead the S&P 500 to a fresh record last week. And our Europe markets editor Katy Barnato has the details.We have some research by Bespoke Investment Group, which suggests that almost 1/5 of stocks in the S&P 500 hit new 52-week highs recently. That's the largest share since May 2021. It seems to suggest that Wall Street's embracing the idea that the US economy has wizard a hit from interest rate rises, so that clears the wave, potentially large gains in a bigger range of stocks. And I think it potentially alleviates investors' concerns that it's just an AI bubble driving a few specific stocks, and that's going to burst.Investors will get a fresh look at stocks prospects with the release of US consumer-price data tomorrow and earnings this week from the likes of Oracle, Kohls, and Adobe. Journal workplace reporter Chip Cutter recently learned about an HR issue playing out at network equipment giant Cisco Systems. The relationship between a manager and their new hire had gotten off to a tense start, though neither could put a finger on exactly why. And so the company turned to generative artificial intelligence. And after uploading chat logs between the two employees, the software quickly detected that the new hire who was seeking extra clarity on their assignments was actually making their boss feel unheard as they kept on fielding the same questions over and over. And as Chip reports, Cisco is far from alone among major US employers in turning to AI in a trend that could have major consequences for the labor market. Chip, what should we make of this story from Cisco? It's either a huge boon for the folks on their HR team that they can now turn to AI to problem solve things, or quite worrying because until recently, this would've been solely the job of a human to handle. Well, that's exactly right. You'd have people who are really skilled at figuring out the source of workplace tensions, understanding why people might not exactly be sort of working well together, what the issue might be. And here, software was able to really give these two people an answer, which helped them then work better together. And so I think all of this is then fueling a lot of predictions, some ominous, some optimistic about what gen AI does to corporate roles. Jamie Dimon, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase, has said that AI might require future generations to only work three and a half days a week. The venture capitalist Vinod Khosla, on the other hand, also has said that AI might be able to do 80% of the jobs that exist today over the next 10 years. And so it raises bigger questions about what happens in society.   Yeah, especially, Chip, as a lot of companies are out there testing AI to see what kind of opportunities it could unlock for them, how much of a job killer it might be. What have they found out so far?So some companies have really gone all in on AI, for example, deploying tools that help their engineers write software code where a lot of companies are beginning to roll gen AI into its call centers or contact centers, just wanting people who are answering customer questions to more easily point to policies or responses, whatever it might be to speed up that job. Certainly it's leading companies to either cut jobs or say, "We definitely don't need to hire as many people going forward." So I think there's then a bigger question of beyond call centers, beyond coders, what does this really look like? And we're starting to see companies test this in a range of different corporate roles. So in marketing, for example, some teams are creating photos or marketing campaigns using gen AI. There's one company, that's the insurance company, Allstate, they have been experimenting with a tool that would allow the company to produce internal training videos in the voice and likeness of the company's HR chief or other people. The idea would be to do more sort of quick on the job training with just a few text prompts. And then other companies are analyzing earnings reports from their rivals and their competitors to better understand what's happening to prep for their own investor calls. So it's a real range here, and it just shows that companies are thinking, "Hey, what could gen AI do to change how a lot of white collar professionals work?"Yeah, a lot of different potential applications there. In terms of the quality of the work that these companies are seeing when they engage AI on all those projects, what are they finding? Yeah, so I think one of the examples here that it's interesting is from a company called Ecolab. It's an infection prevention company. Their CEO told me that they've tried this in investor relations and their finance team. And so they would use gen AI to parse earnings call transcripts from competitors, but they also then use it to create their own quarterly calls. And so they'll look back to see what the company said a year ago, for example, what they might want to emphasize this time around. And the CEO said that the gen AI analysis is kind of mixed. In one case, gen AI inserted the CEO's predecessor's name in the role. The system is sort of, he said about 60% right, 40% wrong. And so what they're doing is they kind of have a gen AI version of all of this, and then they do it the old way too. I think what that showing inside a lot of companies is that it's not ultimately a huge productivity saver just yet. Some real issue there with accuracy of course, but there are also much bigger hurdles. There are costs. For example, I mean some software charges licensing fees of $30 per user per month, so that can get pretty expensive if you're a company with 100,000 employees if everybody was going to get access to something like this. But I think security is also something that really trips a lot of executives up. There are real fears of putting proprietary data or customer data into some of these large language models. Certainly there are real concerns about privacy here. Regulations remain in flux. This is all stuff that gives executives pause. And then there's also just the human adoption piece. Getting people to change their behavior takes work too. That's another sort of potential roadblock to more people using gen AI in their everyday roles. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal workplace reporter Chip Cutter. Chip, thanks so much for bringing us this story.Thanks for having me. Coming up, the US Justice Department launches a criminal probe into the midair blowout on an Alaska Airlines flight. And Oppenheimer cleans up at the Oscars. We've got those stories and more after the break. Over the weekend, the Journal revealed that the Justice Department has opened a criminal investigation into the Alaska Airlines blowout that happened midair in early January. The DOJ has contacted passengers, crew, and pilots who were on the flight, which had to make an emergency landing in Portland. And now we have gained more insights into the sequence of events that led to the blowout. Boeing workers had spotted faulty parts on the plane's fuselage immediately after it arrived into a Boeing factory, but failed to repair them straight away. And when they did repair those faults 19 days later, workers removed but never replaced four critical bolts. Such work done outside of the normal production sequence is called Traveled work, and has been a top priority of Boeing's to eliminate because doing work out of order complicates the already complex process of putting together an airplane. We are exclusively reporting that natural gas production company, EQT, has struck a roughly $5.5 billion deal to buy back its former unit Equitrans Midstream in a bid to create a major natural gas provider. The all stock transaction is expected to be announced later today with the combined company set to be valued at more than $35 billion, including debt. The deal comes amid a spate of mergers and acquisitions within the commodity space. As oil and gas companies tried to capitalize on recent years profit gains following higher energy prices. And in apparent effort by the British royal family to address concerns about the health of Princess of Wales Kate Middleton appears to have backfired in dramatic fashion. Several global news agencies have pulled a photo released by the Royal Family showing the Princess alongside her three children with the Associated Press saying that the source appears to have manipulated the image. Reuters, Getty, and AFP have also removed the image from their systems. The image was posted by the Royal Family on social media on Sunday to commemorate Mother's Day in the UK, and marks the first official photo of the Princess since she underwent abdominal surgery in January. Kensington Palace didn't respond to a request for comment. And from unintentional drama to the scripted sort, Oppenheimer cleaned up at last Night's Academy Awards in what Journal Entertainment reporter John Jurgensen told us was a historic sweep. Oppenheimer landed seven awards including Best Picture, Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, and Best Director for Christopher Nolan, his first Oscars. It was the first time in years that a movie that was so dominant at the box office also dominated at the Oscars, which people often criticize for being disconnected from the tastes of regular moviegoers. You have to go back about 20 years to a Lord of the Rings movie to find a best picture winner that grossed anything close to what Oppenheimer did at the box office, which is approaching about $1 billion worldwide. Other highlights of the night included Emma Stone winning Best Actress for her performance in Poor Things, John Cena shuffling on stage to award best Costume design naked, and Ryan Gosling's performance of his Barbie anthem I'm just Ken.He's wearing a hot pink suit and gloves and glasses, and he had a surprisingly good voice as he belted it out live in the theater with dozens of Ken dancers behind him, and pretty much leading the whole Dolby theater and a sing-along, including many of his co-stars that he got on the mic. Televised award shows are fighting for relevance and for viewers, so a high energy night like this that also featured lots of popular movies and their stars in the mix has to be seen as a win for the Academy Awards. I'd be surprised if viewership didn't go up at least a bit from last year.And that's What's News for Monday morning. Today's show was produced by Kate Bullivant and Hattie Moir. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kilhof. And I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. And until then, thanks for listening. President Biden presents his budget proposal with the election in mind. And gold prices are soaring, but how sustainable is the rally? It really just depends on what you think the Fed is going to do. And that part of market psychology is still very important for what happens to gold, in particular in the U.S. Plus, Elon Musk is open-sourcing Grok, his chatbot rival to OpenAI's ChatGPT. It's Monday, March 11th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for The Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. President biden has released his budget proposal, and it isn't expected to gain momentum in Congress. The plan would boost federal spending to $7.3 trillion next fiscal year. Some of the asks are familiar policy goals, raising taxes on the wealthy and large corporations, and lowering costs of prescription drugs, childcare, and housing. It's a largely symbolic document and the first step to kick off debate in Congress over plans for the next fiscal year. But the proposal's also a cornerstone of President Biden's reelection campaign. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal economic policy reporter, Andy Duehren. Welcome back, Andy. Thanks for having me. Okay. So Andy, we know this is a budget proposal, but we know too that it's an election year budget proposal. How important is it for Biden to lay out his priorities in this way? The budget proposal comes on the heels of the State of the Union last week, and so this is really in some ways an opportunity for the president and the White House to kick off the reelection fight and present their platform to the American people on a bigger stage than they often do. And so, many of the ideas in this budget are not new. They're things that the president ran for in 2020 and also that he's proposed to Congress several times previously. But given that it's an election year, there is a little bit more curiosity about even if this isn't something that's going to become law now, what does Joe Biden want to do and what are the policies that he supports? So in that sense it is a more interesting budget than it otherwise could be, but given that Congress is not likely to take up many of its elements. And let's remind our listeners, Congress still hasn't agreed on funding plans to cover this fiscal year. What are some of the toughest battle lines in this latest proposal, Andy? A clear place where there could be difficulty and has been difficulty in the past is on some of the tax increases that the president is laying out. He's been calling for many of these proposals for years now. And even when Democrats controlled both the House and the Senate in 2021 and 2022, the Democratic Party, President Biden's own party, rejected many of these tax plans. So given that even among Democrats there's division about the extent of some of these tax increases and Republicans almost uniformly post tax increases of any kind, those are likely to be particularly difficult parts of this budget to see becoming law. There's a similar story for some of the spending plans too in terms of proposals on paid leave, and child care, and things of that nature. So past performance does not predict future performance, but it doesn't bode well I guess for some of these ideas and their odds in Congress. Okay, the budget proposal is out. What kind of responses is it getting so far? So far the responses have been, at least the ones that I've seen, have been somewhat predictable in terms of Republicans harshly criticizing this and ally Democrats supporting it. Republicans are putting forward their own budget plan that would cut a lot of spending that President Biden wants to increase, and also they oppose tax increases. So it's broken down along party lines pretty quickly in a somewhat predictable way. This is a somewhat familiar process to many Americans, but remind us what happens next over the next couple months. The way this would usually go, and I guess there is no such thing as a normal budget year anymore, but the typical federal appropriations process, it's usually kicked off by the release of the budget. And then over the coming weeks, members of the administration will go to Capitol Hill and they will testify about the budget for their particular agencies or parts of the government. That's supposed to inform the budget that Congress ultimately puts together and passes over the course of the summer and into the fall. But as is often the case, and as is particularly the case this year, Congress is still late on last year's budget. And there have been a series of stopgap measures, basically extensions of previous funding such that Congress is just now getting around to potentially finally finishing this year's budget and we're more than halfway through the fiscal year. Given some of the dysfunction and disagreement over spending in particular in Congress, you could see the debate drag out through the end of the year and potentially into the next administration. Wall Street Journal economic policy reporter, Andy Duehren. U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary, Marcia Fudge, will be stepping down later this month. She'll be the third member of President Biden's cabinet to depart since 2021. The White House said HUD's Deputy Secretary, Adrianne Todman, will serve as Acting Secretary. It's unclear whether the Senate would confirm a successor during an election year. The U.S. is grappling with the country's highest recorded level of homelessness following the Covid-19 emergency. Coming up, riskier assets like stocks are reaching new highs in the U.S. amid investor optimism. So why is the price of gold, a haven asset, also hitting records? That's after the break. Elon Musk has already set up his own artificial intelligence company, xAI, to challenge rival OpenAI, the maker of ChatGPT. Today, Musk announced his company will open-source its chatbot Grok. That means he's giving users free license to use and sometimes modify his creation. The move's the latest step in a feud between Musk and OpenAI's CEO, Sam Altman. Musk sued OpenAI, Altman, and fellow founder Greg Brockman last month alleging the company abandoned its founding mission and that it's giving priority to profits over the benefits to humanity. Social media reporter, Alexa Corse, has more. This is Musk saying, "I'm going to do this differently, not like OpenAI." And there may also be some other advantages. Open-sourcing can attract more developers and potential customers who want to test out the model. When you have developers outside your company who can really look closely at your model you can benefit from having feedback, more eyes on the model. Musk isn't the first person to do this. Meta actually made its model, called Llama 2, open-source. Then lastly, Musk has been supportive of the idea of open-source for a long time and we've seen some examples with aspects at Tesla and X as well. Gold has long been considered a haven asset, and investors have flocked to the precious metal as a safer bet during times of market volatility and geopolitical risk. But prices are now hitting record highs, catching even Wall Street analysts by surprise. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal markets reporter, Bob Henderson. So Bob, my father has invested in gold for several years. It's something he said he's putting aside for his kids, and I know many investors have used it in this way as a hedge against uncertainty in the future. But are there other factors at play right now that are driving the current rise in prices? Yeah, there definitely are. Gold is traditionally used by investors as a safe haven, a place they turn to when the economy looks like it might have difficulty, or conversely, if the economy is booming so much that inflation is a concern. Now there are several other factors at play. One is that the Federal Reserve is expected to cut rates at some point, and cutting interest rates is good for gold. The other factors are outside the U.S. Central banks have become big purchasers of gold, especially in the last few years since Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The third thing is, other overseas buyers in other economies that are in a different phase from the U.S. economy. The U.K., for example, entered recession towards the end of last year and there was a spike in gold purchases. In China, their property market has been battered, their stock market is down, and so people have turned to gold there. In India where the economy is booming, people are concerned about inflation and are buying gold for that reason as well. Why are central banks overseas buying more gold? The World Gold Council polls them and they've been asked about that. The most common reason for increasing their gold holdings is because of gold's historical performance in crisis. Whenever there's been a crisis they've stepped up their buying. So again, the 2008 financial crisis was what prompted them to really turn around and start buying rather than selling. And then more recently, Russia's invasion of Ukraine again highlighted geopolitical risk. It really comes down to that. Given all of these various factors, what are investors thinking about the sustainability of this current rally? There's very much mixed outlooks on that. And because the central banks are such a big factor, it really depends often what they're going to do and whether they're going to be dissuaded from buying gold at these higher prices. For example, China is well known in their commodity buying for being very judicious as to when they buy, whether it's oil, whether it's copper, whether it's gold. And with prices as high as they are some people think that central banks may slow down, and that could be a factor that puts a stop to the rally. On the other hand, others argue that the central bank holdings are quite small in emerging markets relative to developed markets. So there's still a lot of buying to be done and reasons to think they're going to continue. Of course, they're not the only factor. The other maybe big factor that could swing are U.S. investors which have been selling gold for actually quite a while because of the high interest rate environment. A lot of analysts expect that to flip as soon as it becomes clear that the Fed is definitely cutting rates in the near term. And then you may see that exchange-traded funds, which people have been selling gold whether by retail or institutional investors, they may stop selling and start buying. And if that happens, then the rally will not only continue but likely accelerate. That was Wall Street Journal markets reporter, Bob Henderson. Reddit says it's seeking to raise up to $748 million in its IPO aiming for a valuation of up to 6.4 billion. That's down from the $10 billion valuation the social media company had notched in its most recent fundraising round in 2021. And it's partly a reflection of investors waning appetite for unprofitable companies. In 2023, Reddit reported a net loss of more than $90 million, though the company posted net income of roughly 18 and a half million in the last three months of that year. The details come less than three weeks after Reddit said it had applied to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange. And roughly 50 passengers aboard a Boeing 787 Dreamliner operated by Latam airlines received treatment by first responders after landing in Auckland, New Zealand. The airline said the aircraft traveling from Sydney, Australia to Auckland experienced a, quote, "technical event during the flight, which caused a strong movement," end quote. New Zealand ambulance service transported a dozen patients to the hospital, including one with serious injuries. Boeing's reputation has suffered from a pair of fatal 737 MAX 8 crashes in 2018 and 2019 that grounded hundreds of jets for nearly two years. More recently, Boeing has been dogged by issues with various models including misdrilled holes, loose rudder bolts, and a door plug blowout on an Alaska Airlines MAX 9 flight in January. And finally, there are a few recognizable features inside a car, a steering wheel, seats facing the same direction, and a windshield with hopefully a clear view of the road. But as self-driving cars get closer to reality car designers and tech companies are thinking outside the box when it comes to the space inside a vehicle. Could they, for example, get rid of that steering wheel, or use the windshield to show videos or PowerPoint slides? Our European automotive reporter, William Boston, says it's a real shift for designers. One of the things they want to do is be sociable. And they don't want to kneel on the front seat and look over the bench seat in the back and talk to people who are driving in the car. They want to turn the seat around. They want to have a room that's a lounge, or a room that's an office, or a room that can be converted into a bedroom where they can lay down and sleep while the car drives them from Germany to Italy, or from New York to Los Angeles. So the vehicle now is an open space that can be used for various functions, and that's kind of where things are going. We may get there, we may not get that far, but it's taking steps now in this direction. I like the creativity but I'm not so sure about having a video screen replace my windshield even if I'm not the one driving. And that's What's News for this Monday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Anthony Bansie and Pierre Bienaime, with Supervising Producer, Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for The Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Thanks for listening.