Rising immigration reverses population declines in American cities. Plus, fresh warning signs for the EV market as startup, Fisker, looks into a possible bankruptcy. And while the world was focused elsewhere, North Korea leveled up. Jung Un has dramatically advanced its regional weaponry. They've made them nuclear capable, and that's a menace for Seoul, Tokyo, and all the American soldiers in the region. It's Thursday, March 14th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal, and here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. Accelerating immigration has boosted the population in the 50 largest metro areas in the U.S. amid a 15% increase in net arrivals from abroad last year. That is according to new census figures and Journal estimates that immigration reporter Michelle Hackman says paint a complex picture about the state of American cities after COVID. So, the latest census data shows us that a lot of the trends we saw during the pandemic are starting to reverse. A lot of what we saw were people newly mobile because they were remote working, moving from big cities to smaller cities, and now we're seeing big cities experiencing a resurgence, and it's actually not necessarily because of Americans moving around or more births, but because of a spike in immigration. Immigration is back to pre-pandemic levels, and as we know, immigrants have been by and large heading to these larger cities, like New York, like Chicago. There are a few places where actually immigration was the only reason why cities grew. For example, Philadelphia, Boston, Miami, even places like Salt Lake City. Had it not been for immigration, those cities would have shrank. Other cities are continuing to shrink, with New York City, for instance, still down half a million people compared to the start of the pandemic. Though population losses there and in L.A. and Chicago are narrowing. That is thanks to a recent influx of migrants driven there in part because of guarantees of free shelter. However, Michelle said it's not possible to tell from the data how much population growth is directly related to the situation at the border. The census estimates that about 1.6 million net new immigrants came to the country last year, but that I will note, is smaller than some other estimates. There are some places, including the Congressional Budget Office, that say it could be as many as 3.3 million immigrants. Some people even say it could be more than that. We know how many migrants were arrested at the border, but it's much harder to know how many were deported versus how many were released into the country versus how many were detained and later deported or detained and later released. And that's why you have all these different estimates. Adding to the uncertainty, some 3.4 million cases remain backlogged in immigration courts, a backup that could take years to resolve before immigrants learn whether they'll be allowed to stay in the U.S. or face deportation. While the world was looking elsewhere, North Korea has become a bigger threat. That is the conclusion of our Korea bureau chief, Timothy Martin, who has been taking stock of the dramatic steps that Kim Jong Un has taken in recent years to increase his military's capabilities and its diplomatic connections. And as the U.S. and South Korea wrap up joint military exercises today, Tim reports that their sense of alarm at the North's advances is palpable. Tim, recap for us the gains that North Korea has made in the last few years. This was a country that was front and center for a while and then just a whole lot of other foreign policy priorities kind of buried it. A lot has happened in the five years since Kim Jong Un met former president Donald Trump in Singapore. Jung Un has dramatically advanced its regional weaponry. They've made them nuclear capable, and that's a menace for Seoul, Tokyo, and all the American soldiers in the region. They've also unrolled new technology for the long range missiles that can strike the U.S. They've made first runs at things like spy satellites, advanced submarine launched missiles, even explored hypersonic technology. So, we've seen a whole laundry list of North Korean weapon advances from Kim Jong Un in recent years, and without much fanfare. Did that catch foreign observers off guard, the fact that all of this could get done kind of at the same time? The U.S. has tried more than a dozen times to add more sanctions or to condemn North Korea for its illegal weapons behavior, each has failed. And I think that recognition only illustrates we're in this Cold War era again. And what's transpired in recent years, we've seen Kim Jong Un draw closer to Vladimir Putin. North Korea and Russia are expanding their relationship. There are assertions that Kim Jong Un and North Korea are supplying Russia's war efforts with munitions and even short range missiles. And there are broad expectations that Russia is helping North Korea not only with food aid, but also perhaps giving them tips on how to make their weapons even more menacing, even more dangerous to the world. Kim was very strategic in embracing Russia. North Korea was one of the few countries to publicly back Russia's invasion of Ukraine a few years ago. And Russia has a vote at the Un Security Council. So, the world has been unable to stop Kim Jong Un from advancing his nuclear and weapons technologies, so he's been able to act with impunity. Tim, you've just wrapped up a number of big interviews with senior military figures on the Korean peninsula. What do they see as North Korea's actual threat as opposed to maybe just the risk that it poses on paper all of these technological advances? I sat down with four star Generals from South Korea and the U.S., including America's top military official here in South Korea, General Paul LaCamera. And he told me that his thinking had evolved on how to deter Kim Jong Un. In the past, the aim was to try and dissuade Kim from developing his nuclear technologies. Now, we're past that point. Now, the aim is to try and get Kim not to use those weapons, and that's a significant shift. And what are they doing about it? Well, springtime exercises that have been dramatically expanded, even the number of participating troops have doubled. So, the approach both by America, South Korea, and allies is to really show Kim Jong Un that if he were to try and take this to a military conflict, to a battlefield situation, the U.S., South Korea, and others would be standing there ready. You mentioned this top U.S. official saying that the thinking had evolved, that it's no longer about stopping development of weapons tech, it's about making sure North Korea doesn't use those weapons. Are there tough choices then that the U.S. and South Korea may need to make in the coming years when it comes to trying to contain Pyongyang? North Korea stands as one of the hot button issues in the world, and because its nuclear advances are proceeding unchecked, what the U.S. and South Korea are trying to figure out is, "What is our risk appetite for any type of clash with North Korea?" The current South Korean administration, they're conservative, they back a tougher line against Pyongyang. They've been very bellicose in their language, that any type of North Korea provocation would be met with an overwhelming response. Seoul officials have said, "Kim Jong Un has two options, peace or destruction." And the U.S. might have a slightly different viewpoint. Of course, this is not their homeland, but they have soldiers here. And I think that's what the two countries need to reconcile, which is of all the actions that North Korea could take, what is the appropriate level of response. In recent years, South Korea, the U.S. and even Japan have bonded more closely together on the military, and that is something Kim Jong Un would not welcome. So, that's where a lot of the effort will be aimed in the years ahead. And Tim, I've got to just ask quickly. It's an election year and the U.S. is already trying to put out fires in the Middle East and keep the focus on Ukraine. Is there a scenario in which North Korea could become a front page issue again? This is what Kim Jong-Un wants the world to think, and this is what many military strategists are worried about. The world is preoccupied already with wars in the Middle East and Europe. Could a third front open up in Asia, be that Taiwan or between the two Koreas? This type of global chaos is an environment that Kim Jong Un really welcomes, because ultimately, he doesn't want a war. Any type of nuclear strike against the U.S. would mean the end of his regime, the end of him. What he wants is to set up a scenario where he's able to humiliate South Korea, that he's able to raise the perception of threat and danger so high that the U.S. feels like it has no other option but to come back to the table and negotiate a de-nuclearization deal that would be favorable to Pyongyang. Kim Jong Un's ultimate ask might remain the same. He wants sanctions removed. He wants recognition from the U.S. as a proper country. He would like for his country to be recognized as a nuclear state, which he has defacto status as of now. But I think what's changed is his ability to stay away from the negotiating table. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal Korea bureau chief, Timothy Martin. Tim, thanks so much for bringing us this story. Thanks. Coming up, the EV slump takes its toll as startup, Fisker, considers filing for bankruptcy, and how Hamas may have used crypto to fund its operations. Those stories and more after the break. Now, to a Journal exclusive, as we've learned that EV startup, Fisker, is preparing for a possible bankruptcy filing. The company went public last year, but is saddled with more than a billion dollars in debt and has struggled with sales growth as EV demand slumped. Journal reporter, Sean McClain, who covers EV startups, says Fisker is working with restructuring advisors, financial advisors, and law firms.Sean McClain: Fisker has a number of plans that they're working on to potentially turn their situation around. One is seeking additional money from existing investors and talking to a large car maker, as they put it, for potential investment and also a joint manufacturing agreement in the U.S. And the reason why that's important is currently Fisker makes all its EVs overseas at a factory in Austria, and that means none of their vehicles qualify for a federal EV purchase tax credit. Being able to build in the U.S. will make their vehicles more affordable and also allow them to launch two new vehicles, including a pickup truck, another is a $30,000 small crossover. That said, Fisker's finances are in rough shape. They issued a going concern warning. The going concern warning means they may not have enough money to fund their business for this year. And so, they're out looking for additional investment. Fisker declined to comment. And in more EV news, Hyundai and its sibling company, Kia, are recalling around 170,000 of their electric vehicles in South Korea over faulty software that could cause the loss of power while driving. The recall affects some of Hyundai's Ionic and Genesis models. Hyundai Motor Group says it doesn't yet have an official estimate on the recalls' global impact, though some local media outlets have reported that around 600,000 EVs could be affected. We are exclusively reporting that the U.S. Treasury Department is investigating $165 million in cryptocurrency-linked transactions that may have helped finance Hamas before the militant group's October 7th attack on Israel. The findings upend the traditional view that crypto is used by terrorist groups only as a meager form of crowdfunding and come as Hamas' access to traditional sources of funding have been hit by Western sanctions. Alex Frangos is a Journal finance editor and says the revelations could lead to further crypto regulation. Treasury is asking Congress basically for more powers to be able to regulate and see what's going on in this super murky world. There are those in the crypto industry who think this is overblown and that the amount of money that Hamas maybe has used through crypto is lower. So, there's definitely two sides to this, but the Treasury is pretty insistent that they need better powers to be able to see what's going on. In the old days, people laundered money through the banks, and it was easier for the Treasury Department to just call up a bank and be like, "Hey, you need to tell us what's going on." With crypto, it's much harder to do that because a lot of the exchanges are totally private, unregulated, offshore. They don't know your customer procedures, so what they want is better powers to be able to peer into that pipeline of money moving around and peer around and see what's going on. And a record amount of people are taking early withdrawals from their 401k accounts as more Americans turn to their pension pots for emergency funding as the price of everything from daycare to food keeps on going up. Journal retirement reporter, Anne Tergesen, has more. Such withdrawals, which are referred to as hardship withdrawals in the industry, those reached a record 3.6% of participants at Vanguard 401k plans in 2023. 3.6% is a pretty small percentage. However, that is a record level, and it's up from 2.8% in 2022. I think the 401k data also reflects a divergence. I think a lot of people are doing very well. Those who can afford to save are really saving. However, there also are a lot of people who maybe aren't doing as well and who feel the need to rely on their 401k savings in an emergency. If you take a hardship withdrawal, you're taking that money out, you're paying income tax on the money you withdraw. If you're younger than 59 and a half, you're also probably paying a 10% penalty on your withdrawal. People really shouldn't take them unless they absolutely need the money. And if you've got questions about what the continued rise in prices means for your family budget, we'd love to hear them. Send us a note or better yet, record a voice memo on your phone and send that to us at wnpod@wsj.com. That's wnpod@wsj.com. Or leave us a voicemail at (212) 416-4328. Just be sure to include your name and location, because we might use it on the show. And that is What's News for Thursday morning. Today's show was produced by Kate Bullivant and Hattie Moir. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kilhof. And I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. And until then, thanks for listening Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer calls for an end to Benjamin Netanyahu's government in Israel. And, we'll look into the connection between big profits and high prices. In some sense, companies are essentially exploiting this cognitive flaw humans have that they just are not punishing them for their failure to pass on cost savings. Plus, former Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin wants to buy TikTok. It's Thursday, March 14th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer is calling for new elections in Israel saying Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu "has lost his way." Schumer is the highest ranking Jewish elected official in the US government. He delivered a speech on the Senate floor earlier today. I believe a new election is the only way to allow for a healthy and open decision making process about the future of Israel, at a time when so many Israelis have lost their confidence in the vision and direction of their government. Schumer's speech is the latest in a series of high level warnings and White House actions aimed at pressuring Israel to allow more aid into Gaza and rethink its war plans for Hamas, whose deadly attack on Israel sparked the war in October. The address marked an unusually direct criticism of the democratically elected leader of a close ally and sparked sharp pushback from Congressional Republicans and from Israel's ambassador to the US. Private equity. Those big names like Apollo, Blackstone, and KKR already dominate corporate finance, but now they're turning their eyes to US consumers. The firms are pushing into what's known as asset-based finance, think auto loans, credit cards, and real estate mortgages. It's a market worth potentially hundreds of billions of dollars. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal reporter Matt Wirz. Welcome, Matt. Hello. So why are private equity firms interested in going this route? Is it just the profit potential? Yeah. It's scale. That's really what this offers them. It's the opportunity to grow much bigger, much faster. And it's interesting the question you said private equity firms. These firms really aren't private equity firms predominantly anymore. The bulk of their assets under management are actually no longer private equity. That's still a big chunk, but they've sort of maxed out that market. So they moved from that to making loans to corporations and now they've kind of maxed out that market. And so, they need a new frontier, and they found it in this much bigger, much more varied pool of loans that historically, have been made by banks. The big picture is just that they are becoming massive. They're becoming much, much bigger and much more important to the financial system in our country and around the world. What does this mean for their profits? It's good for their shareholders and it's really good for the executives. Many of them are founders of these firms and they still own significant amounts of the shares. And so, when the assets under management of these companies grows by say 20% or 30%, the stock valuation goes up a multiple of that and they make a lot of money. And what does it mean for consumers? I think we don't know. We really don't. Because regulation of these institutions is not prepared for them doing this type of lending, and so we don't really know how it's going to play out in the short term. What it means is that consumers should do maybe a little bit more homework than they used to. They should ask of their credit card company. Okay, so you're the name on my credit card bill, but do you own my loan? Do you own my credit card balance? Or to somebody else? That would be a good place to start. That's Wall Street Journal reporter Matt Wirz. Coming up, big profits and high prices are often linked. We'll dive into the details of the connection between the two after the break. US retail sales rose a seasonally adjusted 0.6% in February, slightly less than expected. The monthly report on how consumers are spending or pulling back is viewed as a harbinger for the state of the US economy. The results show consumer spending is still robust, but not as strong as economists. We're hoping many believe Americans are now close to spending down their savings and feeling stretched by inflation, which has impacted the prices of everyday essentials like groceries. We'd actually like to hear from you about that. What questions do you have about food price inflation and what it means for your family budget? Send us a note or even better record a voice memo on your phone and send it to Wnpod@wsj.com. That's W-N-P-O-D at wsj.com. You can also leave us a voicemail at 212-416-4328. Just be sure to include your name and location. We might use it on the show. And when we talk about high prices, we often draw connections with big profits. President Biden even referenced them during his State of the Union address last week where he used the term shrinkflation and price gouging. So is it all politics or is there any truth to it? Our chief economics commentator Greg Ip, tackles this in his latest capital account column and he joins me now to explain. Welcome back, Greg. Thanks for having me. So let's start with the ways big profits and higher prices are connected. We did see some of this during the height of the pandemic. When companies saw more profits, they raise prices. Exactly. And when you actually look at what was going on, it's really not that surprising. You had basically this gigantic wall of demand as people emerged from lockdowns and wanted to spend. They had all these stimulus checks. We had low interest rates and company's ability to produce enough to meet that demand was very constrained because there were supply chain bottlenecks everywhere. If you essentially have unlimited demand and very limited supply, that's a recipe to raise prices. That goes straight to margins. No big mystery there. The question mark arises when, in the last year, almost all the evidence tells us that supply chain problems are pretty much fixed. And yet profit margins are still very high. They're not coming down. And, just as a matter of arithmetic, because profit margins haven't come down more, that means prices also haven't come down as much. And so this at least tells us there is something there when people complain that high profits might be part of the story about why inflation hasn't come down more. So given that, what are some of the caveats we're not considering? Well, if you listen to President Biden, he says, "Oh, it's all about junk fees." You buy this concert ticket and you end up paying $10 more than you thought, or he'll say, "It's shrinkflation. That Snickers bar is smaller than it used to be." But if you actually study these phenomena, yes, they exist, but it's very hard to show that they're getting worse. So that's not really a story. What about the notion that market power is becoming more concentrated in the hands of a few companies? The problem with that was we don't really have much evidence that the market is more concentrated now than it was three or four years ago. The final possibility though is sort of like psychology, which is that in the oil market, they used to talk about rockets and feathers. When oil prices went up, gasoline followed like a rocket. When oil prices went down, gasoline kind of only slowly flowed down like a feather. Well, it turns out that rockets and feathers pretty much represents the way prices behave across the whole economy. It looks like what happened is that costs shot up in the early part of the pandemic. Companies were very quick to pass that through to prices. Costs have since come down a bit or they've stopped going up. Companies have not passed that benefit onto their customers. Company marketing departments have figured out that people will swallow a price increase and they won't necessarily insist on that price going down again later on. So maybe that's part of the story is that in some sense, companies are essentially exploiting this cognitive flaw humans have, that they just are not punishing them for their failure to pass on cost savings. That's Wall Street Journal Chief Economics commentator, Greg Ip. Former Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is interested in buying TikTok. He said he's putting together a group to try to purchase the short video app after the house voted yesterday to ban it in the US or force a sale. Mnuchin has long crusaded against Chinese ownership of the app. He hasn't said how much he might pay for TikTok, which could be valued at more than a hundred billion dollars. A deal is far from guaranteed. Senate lawmakers have signaled a more cautious approach to a ban or forced sale, which would have little precedent. TikTok and its owner ByteDance didn't respond to request for comment today. SpaceX pulled off an extended flight through space during its third test mission today. The spacecraft known as Starship successfully separated from its booster and proceeded to fly for around an hour before it was lost while reentering earth's atmosphere. The mission advanced much farther than the company's previous two Starship test flights, marking major progress for a vehicle that could one day transport astronauts to the moon and beyond. And finally, gene editing is complicated and typically involves extracting a patient's cells, tweaking the DNA they contain, and reintroducing them into the body. Now, there's a new frontier. Dozens of people have participated in studies of in vivo editing, which involves editing cells inside the body. One patient in his seventies suffers from a genetic mutation that caused clumps of malformed proteins to build up in his heart, hindering its ability to pump blood. So he underwent a treatment that turned off the gene producing those proteins and his symptoms improved. But this medical innovation isn't without controversy. Wall Street Journal, senior writer, Betsy McKay, looked at the advantages and possible risks.Betsy McKay: The benefits of a medicine like this compared with say, regular drugs are that first of all, it's a one-time treatment. One and done as they call it. And the in vivo treatment is something that could be done more easily in developing countries. Ultimately, it could reach more people and it could be cheaper. It's also, probably, the approach that's going to be needed for most diseases. The benefit for reaching a lot of people is you're doing this inside the body, but that's also the risk. If you're editing cells in a lab and something goes wrong, you have some unintended consequence, you can see it. This is being done in your body. And the concern is that you might accidentally do what's called off target gene editing. You hit some other gene and you might not know it right away. As one professor of cell biology and physiology told Betsy, when it comes to gene editing, we don't know what we don't know. And that's what's news for this Thursday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre Bienaimé with supervising producer Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning.