A Florida judge rejects Donald Trump's bid to dismiss his Mar-a-Lago documents case. Plus China condemns US efforts to force a sale of TikTok, leaving few options for owner ByteDance. If you're ByteDance, you're between a rock and a hard place here. You have two governments that aren't going to budge, and if you do anything that shows that you're willing to comply with one side, then the other side immediately distrusts you. And Palestinians in Gaza run out of money amid soaring inflation and a breakdown of the banking sector. It's Friday, March 15th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal and here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. A federal judge in Florida has rejected an effort by Donald Trump to toss out the classified documents case against him, which involves his handling of classified materials at his Mar-a-Lago residence. US District Court Judge Aileen Cannon acknowledged Trump's motion to dismiss the case presented some arguments warranting serious consideration, but said those questions could be raised later in the trial. In one effort to dismiss the case, Trump's lawyers argued that a portion of the Espionage Act under which Trump is charged is unconstitutional. But Cannon said that striking down the statute would be, "Quite an extraordinary step." Trump has pleaded not guilty in the case, which had initially been set to go to trial on May 20th, but Trump's lawyers have sought a delay and federal prosecutors are now pushing for a July start. Voting has begun in Russia in a presidential election that Vladimir Putin is all but guaranteed to win, with his potential challengers barred from the ballot and his critics either jailed or having fled the country. Given that, our Moscow Bureau Chief Ann Simmons explained the logic of even holding an election. It really is a way for Putin to signal to the rest of the world that he's in charge, that the Russian people endorse him as the leader of Russia. A high turnout and a high vote for Putin, it's basically also an endorsement of his policies and essentially his war in Ukraine. So there was really a full court press by the Kremlin in terms of getting out the vote. They were insistent that the heads of corporations, of industries, that they basically mobilized state workers to go out to the polls. Voting ends on Sunday and a Putin victory would hand him another six year term in office and with it the chance to become Russia's longest reigning leader since Joseph Stalin. Turning to the Middle East, Hamas has called for Palestinians to confront Israel today at the Al Asqua Mosque in East Jerusalem, where large numbers of worshipers are set together. The Islamic Holy Month of Ramadan has been an occasion for violent confrontations at the compound between Palestinians, Israeli authorities and Jewish worshipers in recent years. However, Hamas' political leader did call for a march at Al Asqua to coincide with the start of Ramadan on Sunday that failed to materialize. And the mosque has been largely calm this week with Palestinian leaders saying Israelis have been allowing entry by Palestinians after restricting access since the beginning of the Gaza War. Well already faced with a hunger crisis, displacement and the widespread destruction of homes and businesses, a shortage of cash is now compounding the devastation in Gaza. And for those fortunate enough to have savings or be receiving salaries in Gaza, the Journal's Omar Abdel-Baqui reports that wildly fluctuating prices are adding to the challenges of daily life. Omar, I think a lot of focus, understandably, has been dedicated to how much food aid and other aid is reaching Gaza. And that is a part of the territory's wartime economy. But Gaza has wage earners, it has rent payers, people who rely on buying all manner of products and who are very affected by forces like inflation. What is the state of Gaza's wartime economy now?Omar Abdel-Baqui: So prices in Gaza's desperate wartime economy can be looked at through a simple supply and demand lens. Supply is very low in the enclave for food and other essentials and demand is very high as hunger and starvation is spreading. And so prices have shot up for things that are acquired on the marketplace. Food prices have more than doubled compared to pre-war levels, according to the Palestinian Bureau of Central Statistics. And some staples like flour and salt are 10 times higher than they were pre-war, that's according to the World Food Program. And there are certain other things aside from food that have increased dramatically like rent. So there are over a million Palestinians who are displaced, sheltering in the south, in the border city of Rafah, because of fighting in the north and after the Israeli military urged people to move south. So because of that, rent there has skyrocketed. We spoke with one man, Mustafa Ashkar is his name, before the war, the apartment that he's staying at in Rafah was 1,500 Shekels and now it's 4,000 Shekels. And he's living off savings and he's burning through his savings because of that high rent. And so when he wants to obtain other essentials like diapers, he barters things that he doesn't need as much, bartering cans of beans to get diapers for his 1-year-old. So Omar, prices very clearly there are spiking for those who have the means to pay for essentials. Though you report that many people can't even access cash or digital payment systems.Omar Abdel-Baqui: Yeah. I mean, one, it's important to note that most people are reliant on aid and handouts and are living off aid and handouts from humanitarian organizations or their relatives or their friends. But those lucky enough to have money to their name are having difficulty accessing that cash. So about 80% of people in Gaza are now unemployed. Those that are employed work in either the humanitarian sector or the medical sector. And so they're getting a salary, they just can't get the money because the banking system is essentially paralyzed. Many ATMs and many bank branches have been destroyed along with the money in them. And those that do exist are concentrated heavily in the south, in and around Rafah. So in many cases, those ATMs, which there are only a handful left, they have hours long lines, they run out of cash all the time. And to make matters more complicated, Gaza hasn't had reliable electricity or really any electricity since the beginning of the war. And in addition, there are frequent telecommunication blackouts, so people are not able to rely on electronic transactions either. In terms of what's being done to address these many challenges, in recent days, we have seen airdrops into Gaza of food and other supplies. The US is also setting up a maritime corridor with some partner countries that could bring in additional supplies. Is any of that having an effect at the very least in stabilizing the situation in Gaza?Omar Abdel-Baqui: So not really. The amount of aid coming in from the air is a lot lower than the amount of aid that was coming in via truck. It might make a dent in those already rapidly fluctuating prices, but it's unlikely that those airdrops will stabilize prices. And the maritime corridor is going to take quite a bit of time to get off the ground. The US sent ships from the coast of Virginia and it'll take around 45 days to make it to Gaza. So it'll take quite some time for that aid to make it. Given that, Omar, it sounds like Palestinians in Gaza are going to be waiting for a long time for this situation to improve. What does the severity of this economic situation mean for them and for the territory longer term?Omar Abdel-Baqui: Yeah, the consequences are dire, I would say. The economic situation is intertwined with a larger humanitarian situation. 27 people have died from starvation or dehydration in recent weeks. That's according to health officials on the ground. And if more supplies don't enter the enclave, we'll still see these sky-high prices, unaffordable prices to many people. And we'll see starvation and hunger spread. In the long term, it'll take a long time to rebuild Gaza's banking system, economy, governance structure. It will be a Herculean task. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal reporter Omar Abdel-Baqui. Omar, thank you so much for bringing us this story.Omar Abdel-Baqui: Thank you for having me, Luke. I really appreciate it. Coming up, China signals that it won't allow a forced sale of TikTok in the US. And a cockpit mishap is the likely cause of a terrifying plunge on a Boeing flight to New Zealand. We've got those stories and more after the break. The Chinese government is signaling that it won't allow a forced sale of TikTok, blasting the US for its moves, targeting the video sharing app. Jonathan Cheng is the Wall Street Journal's Bureau Chief in Beijing. John, we heard some pretty fiery language yesterday from China on this. Tell us what jumped out to you. They're not happy with the possibility that TikTok may be locked out of the world's biggest economy, it's largest market. You heard the Foreign Ministry Spokesman on Thursday say it's an overstretching of national security to keep down a good company from a good country that the US doesn't like. They used this phrase, "It is sheer robber's logic to try every means to snatch from others all the good things that they have." So that's pretty strong language, pretty direct. Sounds a little strange in English, but I think we all get the gist of that. Well, at least ByteDance executives seem to, John, given that we're reporting that they've interpreted that as meaning that Beijing would rather the app be banned in the US than sold? Yeah. I mean, look, ByteDance, they were a company that was founded in China, and China still ultimately has control over this company. So if indeed Beijing is going to frown upon any forced sale in the US, then ultimately I think that's probably the way that ByteDance has got to go. So if you're ByteDance, you're between a rock and a hard place here. You have two governments that aren't going to budge, that are effectively rivals here. If you do anything that shows that you're willing to comply with one side, then the other side immediately distrust you or isn't going to be happy. Meanwhile, we are seeing fresh signs of headwinds for China's beleaguered property sector as new home sales plummet. Sellers of secondhand homes are feeling the brunt of the downturn, with prices in February falling 6.3%. The worst decline on record. The years long property slowdown has dealt huge damage to the economy, reducing construction business, hitting consumer confidence and exacerbating the debt burden facing local governments, which typically rely on land sales as their major source of revenue. Well, at long last, companies in Japan are finally announcing significant wage increases. As traditional springtime negotiations show Japan is at the end of decades of economic stagnation. Peter Landers is our Tokyo Bureau Chief. We just heard from the largest Union Confederation in Japan that on average major Japanese companies are planning to raise pay by 5.28%. That's the largest raise since 1991, and it's much higher than last year's raise, which averaged out at about 3.6%. So it's a big pay increase. And we've heard a similar story from individual companies such as Nippon Steel, which is raising wages by 14%. Suntory Holdings, the liquor maker, by about 7%. Peter says that recent stock market records have been a boon for companies and reflect the strength of the Japanese economy now, but that it's taken longer for wages to catch up. What we have in Japan now is an economy that's being driven largely by exporters that are benefiting from the weak yen. But most of the Japanese economy is driven by its own consumers, people who live here in Japan, and they have been much more reluctant to spend because their wages in real terms are actually going down. So what we heard from the head of the Union Confederation today is that she thinks that these higher wages will actually help the economy overall by stimulating consumer spending. We are exclusively reporting that a cockpit mishap was the likely cause of a Boeing 787 Dreamliner flight from Sydney to Auckland suddenly plummeting this week. A flight attendant hit a switch on the pilot's seat while serving a meal, which meant that a motorized feature pushed the pilot into the controls and pushed down the plane's nose. The switch has a cover and isn't supposed to be used when a pilot is in the seat. Some 50 passengers needed medical attention following the incident, with airline Latam saying the jet suffered a technical event during the flight, which caused strong movement. The company said it's working with authorities on the investigation, but has declined to come further. And in another reminder to take what you read online with a grain of salt, a bunch of well-known investors are struggling to get Facebook and other social media platforms to take down posts by impersonators. The fake investing advice from the likes of hedge fund manager Steve Cohen, activist investor, Bill Ackman and ARK Invest's Cathie Wood, aim to scam individuals out of money. And Journal reporter Ben Dummett says that Ackman's Pershing Square has been trying to get those posts taken down but to no avail. What they can do is try to clamp down on these fake ads popping up in order to discourage the scammers from posting these ads in the first place. But regulators have come out and warned investors about this. The hedge funds themselves have told Facebook about this. Facebook claims that it itself is trying to take down these fake ads, and yet they keep reappearing. The only thing you can do is try to get in touch with the hedge funds themselves to see if this is a true ad. Contact Facebook to see if this ad is real or not. Maybe talk to a financial professional to get their advice on the validity of these ads. And that is What's News for Friday morning. Today's show was produced by Kate Bullivant and Charlie Duffield. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kilhof. And I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. Otherwise, have a great weekend and thanks as always for listening. A nationwide settlement could change how Americans buy and sell homes. And can Biden and Trump appeal to America's most disillusioned voters, Gen Z? Democrats, in particular, and Republicans need to engage these voters. They need to make sure they turn out because this election is going to be very tight. Plus, Georgia prosecutor Fani Willis can stay on the election interference case against former President Donald Trump now that her deputy has resigned. It's Friday, March 15th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. If you're looking to buy or sell a home, this story is for you. A groundbreaking settlement announced today could drive down realtor commission rates and force thousands of real estate agents out of the industry. The National Association of Realtors has settled claims that the industry conspired to keep agent commissions high. In the US, that commission is typically 5 to 6% of the purchase price, among the highest in the world. If approved by a federal court, the $418 million agreement changes a couple of things. Sellers who typically pay a buyer's agent now don't have to include in their home listing how much they'll pay, and buyers will now sign agreements with real estate agents on how much to pay them. These would be the biggest changes to how Americans buy and sell homes in decades, and it could mean big savings for both buyers and sellers. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal national legal affairs reporter, Laura Kusisto. Laura, this agreement gives home buyers more power. They can decide whether to use real estate agents and it's easier to negotiate how much to pay them. What does it mean for sellers? From the seller's perspective, it gives them a little bit of flexibility. They can decide if they want to offer compensation to a buyer's agent, "You aren't going to have to pay your agent if you buy this house. I'm going to pay them for you." But I think it gives them more flexibility than we've seen in the past with also saying, "I want to save on fees, and so I'm not going to offer that." Laura, the National Association of Realtors is one of the country's most powerful trade groups. What will the settlement mean for the industry? I absolutely think that it is a threat to the industry. It makes it more likely that buyers might opt not to use agents at all, to say, "I'm going to try to save the money." So, agents are going to have to rethink how they do business a little bit, how they talk to buyers, how they talk to sellers about their compensation. What did the organization say about how the system was working? Their defense of the old system is that it really helped first-time buyers, buyers with more moderate incomes. The fact that the seller was offering to provide the compensation for your agent, it put people on equal footing whether they had just sold a million dollar home or never bought a home in their lives. It could be a challenge for first-time buyers who are now going to have to really commit to paying their agent if the seller doesn't want to. Laura, as our listeners know, we've been covering the ups and downs of the housing market for quite a long time, from higher mortgage rates to record sale prices. Could this settlement change the dynamics of that market? The consumer advocates, the people who are kind of a proponent of these changes, they will tell you this solves all the problems in the world. Right now, one of the big problems we have with the housing market is a shortage of inventory. So, they're going to argue this makes it easier for someone to sell a home, right? They don't have to pay necessarily the same astronomical commissions that they were paying before. So, we might see more inventory come on the market, people be more willing to sell. They've made the argument that home prices will come down and that'll be good for buyers because sellers will have fewer costs in selling a home. That's the sort of optimistic scenario for how this could potentially be good for the housing market. Wall Street Journal national legal affairs reporter, Laura Kusisto. Fani Willis, the Georgia prosecutor who brought a sweeping indictment against former President Donald Trump on charges related to election interference, can remain on the case. A judge ruled this morning that Willis could stay on if her chief legal advisor, Nathan Wade, with whom she had a romantic relationship, resigned. By this afternoon, he had stepped aside. And according to a document reviewed by the Wall Street Journal, Willis accepted his letter of resignation. The judge had said their relationship, which has since ended, created an appearance of impropriety. His order is a partial win for defense lawyers who sought to have Willis and the case itself dismissed. Florida is the next state to hold its presidential primary on Tuesday, March 19th. With a general election rematch between President Biden and former President Donald Trump set, Florida's contest is expected to be a bit sleepy, but the Sunshine State's still a hotbed for the culture wars. Many of the policies pushed by Governor, and one-time presidential hopeful, Ron DeSantis are at the center of those debates, from restricting instruction about sexual orientation in schools to cracking down on drag performances. In our latest episode of Chasing the Base, out Sunday, host Jimmy Vielkind explores how those dynamics are playing out in the Republican presidential contest, and he is back now with a preview of the latest episode. Welcome back, Jimmy. Happy to be with you. All right, so Jimmy, you went to Florida and talked with voters. How are these culture wars playing out among them? Well, generally, when we spoke to Republican voters, they told us that they were supportive of many of the laws that Florida Governor Ron DeSantis has pushed, but that these issues just aren't top of mind. One of the places I went was the Florida Strawberry Festival in Plant City. Think of a state fair, only everything is strawberry flavored. Talking to people, they almost always said that their top issues were immigration in the southern border and the economy. When I would ask about culture wars, we had one person who even said, "Oh, they're issues, but they're just not big issues." Jimmy, a lot of those policies were pushed by Florida Governor Ron DeSantis who dropped out of the race for the GOP nomination for president back in January. How are Florida voters viewing DeSantis versus former President Donald Trump? Well, that was something I asked, basically, everyone we spoke to. I heard from a lot of people that they really liked Ron DeSantis. They were happy with his record as governor, but they just would've picked Donald Trump over DeSantis in a primary if it were ever to have come to a real matchup. Basically, they really like Trump, and they saw no reason for DeSantis to make a challenge at this time/ they felt that if Trump is elected or if Trump exits the scene, they think DeSantis sits on a very solid foundation for a potential run for the presidency in 2028. Jimmy, how does all of this translate what's going on in Florida to the national level? Well, what's interesting about going to Florida at this moment is you can see some signs that the culture war is starting to ebb. The Florida state legislature just concluded its annual session and many culture war priorities just didn't advance. The other thing that I found is that there are activists who are very engaged in these issues and who are very energized by these issues. It's unclear whether that's going to be a very mainstream focus that is going to insert itself into the national debate or whether it's going to stay more on the edges nationally and be more mainstream in certain states, including Florida, as we'd seen over the last several years. Wall Street Journal political reporter, Jimmy Vielkind. Thank you so much, Jimmy. Thanks, Annmarie. And you can hear the latest episode of Chasing the Base right here in the What's News feed on Sunday. Coming up, from Republican voters to a disillusioned Gen Z. We'll talk about why these young voters are more skeptical and pessimistic than previous generations after the break. We are in the heat of the presidential election season. As my colleague, Aaron Zitner, told us on the show last week, there's a lot of antipathy among voters for either candidate in the rematch set between President Biden and former President Donald Trump. But for a certain generation, the disillusionment is even stronger. Gen Z adults, who were born in 1997 and after, are more skeptical of government and pessimistic about the future than any other generation. That's according to long-running surveys and interviews with dozens of young people across the country. So, how did they get that way? Joining me now with more is our national political reporter, Eliza Collins. Welcome back. Eliza. Good to be here. Eliza, I can remember as a young voter, and now I'm an elder millennial, there was really a mix of people whether they wanted to get politically involved or not, but I didn't go through a global pandemic when I was a young person, and that understandably has had a big impact here. Yeah, absolutely. Young voters generally don't vote at the same rates as older voters. That is true across the board. Like you mentioned, there's usually a mix of people that are involved and also very disengaged. But this group, Gen Z, has really had a tumultuous coming of age. The pandemic for many of them was in high school or college. They were sent home. They couldn't be with their friends. They entered a job market with a lot of uncertainty. A lot of people we talked to were getting unemployment for a year. These voters have come of age in the Trump era. The divisiveness has continued in the Biden era. There's climate change warnings, there are school shootings, the right to an abortion was overturned when Roe v. Wade was overturned. So, there's all of these big, earth-shattering events that have come up as they've grown up, and they just don't feel good about the current state of the world and the future that politicians can help them. With that list you just rattled off, it's understandable. But at the same time, there are some positives, too. The job market's strong. The Biden administration has canceled billions of dollars in student loans. So, what are they looking at that sort of tells them they're not in a good spot? This is sort of this voter disconnect that we are seeing across the board. The economy is doing very well, and yet voters of all ages are not feeling it. But with young voters in particular, you mentioned several things that apply to them directly. But they say that there are a lot of things that are still holding them back. Their credit card and car loan delinquencies are increasing, their savings have gone down in that time, rent has gotten really expensive, inflation has gone down, but the price of food is still up. So, these voters are feeling the economic tensions, even if by most measures, the economy is doing very well. I'm also a millennial, and we entered the job market at a worse time than Gen Z, but surveys show millennials generally felt more optimistic about the state of the world because there had been relative calm until that point. So, the outlook is more positive than Gen Z who have come up just in such an angry, partisan, tumultuous time. How big of a problem is this disillusionment for Trump and Biden, and how are they seeking to appeal to this group of voters? It is a problem for Trump and Biden and all politicians. I would say it is a bigger problem for Democrats because young voters do tend to be more liberal than older voters. That has always been the case. That continues to be the case. But our polling showed that Biden led Trump by just a few percentage points with young voters, which is a problem given how liberal this group is on a lot of issues. They're just disengaged. So, both campaigns say they're targeting these voters using untraditional media sources. The Biden campaign just got on TikTok, which is really interesting because Biden has also said that he'd be willing to sign legislation that would ban or force new ownership of TikTok. So, they're trying to reach these voters. At the same time, they may be trying to limit their media sources. I've been speaking with Wall Street Journal national political reporter, Eliza Collins. Thank you as always, Eliza. Thank you. Boeing is advising airlines to check the cockpit seats on 787 Dreamliner jets. The planemaker's memo comes after a terrifying incident earlier this week where a seat mishap likely pushed a pilot into the plane's controls, causing a sudden plunge. We exclusively reported in this morning show that the mishap board a Latam flight from Sydney to Auckland was the likely cause of the incident. About 50 passengers on the flight required medical attention. In a statement, Boeing said the latest memo is a precautionary measure and a reminder to operators to follow an earlier service bulletin to inspect and maintain seat switches. An investigation is ongoing, and Boeing said it defers to authorities on any findings. And a tech outage at McDonald's disrupted operations at restaurants across the globe today with some locations unable to open and close stores except credit card payments or receive orders from apps and kiosks. Customers took to social media to complain. McDonald's said the outage was not related to a cybersecurity incident and that it was working to resolve what it described as a computer system outage. And that's What's News for this week. Today's show is produced by Pierre Bienaimé and Anthony Bansie. What's News is hosted by me, Annmarie Fertoli, and Luke Vargas. Additional support this week from Tali Arbel, J.R. Whalen, and Ariana Aspuru. Michael LaValle wrote our theme music. Our supervising producers are Sandra Kilhof and Michael Kosmides. Aisha Al-Muslim is our development producer. Scott Saloway and Chris Zinsley are our deputy editors. And Philana Patterson is the Wall Street Journal's Head of News Audio. Tomorrow, you can look out for our weekly markets wrap up, What's News in Markets. And on Sunday, you can hear all about political reporter Jimmy Vielkind's travel to Florida and discussions with the Republican voters there in the latest episode of Chasing the Base. We'll be back with our regular show on Monday morning. Thanks so much for listening.