Donald Trump tightens his grip on the GOP as his preferred candidate wins the Ohio Senate primary. Plus Intel wins the biggest grant yet to build chip factories in the United States. And a head spinning day in the courts, the Supreme Court allows then another court blocks a Texas law that would allow the state to deport non-citizens. In theory, the Federal Government is still the only power that can enforce immigration law along the boundary. Who is actually doing what right now? Well, we're trying to find out. It's Wednesday, March 20th. I'm Peter Granitz for the Wall Street Journal filling in for Luke Vargas. And here's the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. The Immigration rules governing the Southern U.S. border have been thrown into disarray this morning after the Supreme Court yesterday allowed Texas to begin arresting and deporting non-citizens on its own, only for an appeals court to step in hours later and block any such efforts. Jess Bravin covers the Supreme Court for the Journal, and he joined us now. Jess, I'm sure it was a very busy evening for you. Two court rulings seemingly at odds with each other. What have they said? So this involves a very aggressive Texas law to really take charge of immigration enforcement, something that Texas says the Federal Government has failed to do. It allows the State Government to arrest and deport non-citizens on its own. The US government and some immigrant rights groups went to a federal court asking that this law be blocked. That's saying that it was unconstitutional. A federal district court in Austin, Texas, agreed and blocked this law. Texas appealed and a federal appeals court temporarily allowed the law to go into effect, only to have that ruling stopped by the Supreme Court for several days while it considered the Government's next appeal. The Supreme Court on Tuesday said, okay, the law can go into effect. We're not going to intervene in what's going on in the lower court. We're not going to tell the Fifth Circuit what to do about it. So therefore the law can go into effect. Except that a few hours later, the Fifth Circuit changed its mind and said, actually on second thought, the law cannot go into effect for now. We're going to hold a hearing on it on Wednesday. So until then, what's the status on the border? Who is controlling immigration between Texas and Mexico right now? In theory or in reality? In theory, the United States Government, the Federal Government is still the only power that can enforce immigration law along the boundary. Who is actually doing what right now? Well, we're trying to find out. We have reporters on the scene who are doing their job and trying to figure out what exactly is happening. Definitely something to watch today. In the meantime, why is this such a legally contentious issue? Well, it's hard because at the core there has been gridlock in Washington DC over what to do about immigration. The last time there was a major immigration overhaul was in the 1980s. Since then, there have been some near misses, but the Democrats and the Republicans have not been able to get together about how to handle immigration, and that has led to problems at the border and changes in policy between administrations as they try to work with a relatively old legal framework, for a situation that is changing. Some states, particularly conservative-led states along the border, have attempted to take matters into their own hands because they are the front line. They're on the border. So that's where most migrants cross, And that's counter to what the Federal Government had wanted. It had tried to block this from going into law in the first place. What's the Federal Government saying now after these rulings? Well, the last time that we heard from them, they were criticizing the Supreme Court decision allowing this Texas law to go into effect. They repeated their argument that it's unconstitutional. They say you can't have each state making its own immigration law, and it's going to damage our ability to control the border because foreign governments won't know even who to talk to. It's going to undermine our relations with other countries, particularly Mexico, which is where most of the migrants are coming from. And in fact, as soon as the Supreme Court said Texas's law could go into effect, the Mexican Foreign Ministry said, we are not accepting any deportees from the Texas State Government. We don't deal with the Texas State Government. We deal with the United States Government as a sovereign to sovereign. So that worry certainly came into reality very quickly. And what has Texas said? Texas officials said they were pleased with the Supreme Court's decision, but noted that there were still many legal proceedings to come, and those new proceedings came quicker than many of us expected to see. So what's next? Is this for Congress to fix? Or will these Supreme Court rulings be the final law? Well, there are going to be more proceedings about what happens to this Texas law called SB4, because once the Fifth Circuit takes its next step, the unhappy losing party, whether that is the State of Texas or the Biden administration, can go back to the Supreme Court. They could ask for a rehearing at the Fifth Circuit. There're going to be many more legal steps over this law. The question is whether it is allowed to go into effect before we get a final decision. If it does go into effect, it will be a major, major change in the way immigration rules are enforced in the United States, because if Texas can do it, so can every other state. So it would really create a lot of upheaval in the way immigration is handled in the United States ahead of the November election. That of course, is what Texas wants to see. They don't like the way it is being done now. They want to upheave it. The Federal Government, however, says that would only make things worse. The implications of course, go well beyond the courts. They go into politics and they go into part of the arguments that both President Biden and his likely Republican challenger, Donald Trump are making about who has the better approach to enforcing immigration law. That was Journal Supreme Court reporter, Jess Bravin. Jess, thanks for getting us up to speed this morning. You bet. Bernie Moreno has won the Ohio Senate Republican primary election. The latest evidence that former President Donald Trump has strengthened his control over the GOP. I wear with honor my endorsement from President Trump. I wear that with a badge of honor because under President Trump, this nation was safer. It was more secure. We had prosperity around the world. Moreno will face Democratic incumbent Sherrod Brown in November. Moreno is a businessman who has not held office before and who dispatched a candidate from the more traditional Republican mold. Matt Dolan was endorsed by Governor Mike DeWine and former Senator Rob Portman, and Dolan had been critical of Trump. Democrats had hoped Moreno would win. A super PAC aligned with Senate Majority leader Chuck Schumer, had spent millions of dollars to boost Moreno's standing with conservatives. The Ohio Senate race is expected to be one of the fall's most competitive. We're exclusively reporting that the European Union is pushing back on efforts to sanction Iran for arming its allied militias in the Middle East. Germany and France had proposed new sanctions on Tehran for its support of Hamas, Hezbollah, the Houthis and other militias in Iraq and Syria. But as the Journals Laurence Norman explains the EU's top diplomat Josep Borrell says not so fast, He says particularly now he believes that that could lead to some kind of Iranian retaliation, which could escalate the current conflict in the region over Gaza. And he also says it could undermine diplomacy with Iran on nuclear issues and other issues. EU officials say the United States supports Borrell's decision to slow the effort. The issue will come up tomorrow and Friday when EU ministers gather in Brussels for a council meeting. Coming up, Samsung shares rally on reports Nvidia is looking to buy some of its next generation chips plus Elon Musk's struggle to lure content creators to social media platform X. We've got those stories and more after the break. The AI hype is showing no signs of abating with Korean tech giant Samsung this morning rallying on reports that Nvidia is looking to buy some of its next generation chips. It comes after Nvidia shares posted a gain yesterday when reporters managed to eke out price estimates for the AI giant's new chips. Here's our Deputy Finance Editor for Europe, Quentin Webb. So each of these, so-called Blackwell chips, might cost between 30 and $40,000. But previously we'd heard estimates of $50,000. And to put that in context. The current chips known as Hoppers, the H100 costs about $25,000 a piece. So Jensen Huang said he wants to make the widest possible group of clients be able to afford these chips. I mean, remember that the AI hype has already buoyed Nvidia shares a lot and it's filtering through to other parts of the global market. Samsung is a little bit behind some of its rivals such as SK and Hynix, but this is seen as confirmation that it's likely to catch up a bit. And if you look, for example, at the Japanese stock market, which has done very well recently, a lot of the biggest drivers there have been semiconductor companies or semiconductor equipment companies. A lot of that is related to AI enthusiasm. Samsung has declined to comment on a possible supply deal with Nvidia. In other chip news, the U.S. government is granting Intel the largest award yet from the $53 billion CHIPS Act. Up to $8.5 billion dollars will go toward new factories and expansion projects in the four states of Arizona, New Mexico, Ohio, and Oregon, in a bid to revive American chip-making. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo said the Intel investments will put the US on track to producing 20% of the world's leading edge chips by the end of the decade. Recently, much of the world's chip production has shifted to Asia leaving the U.S. with around 12% of the world's manufacturing in 2020. Meanwhile, Elon Musk's plans to boost content creator revenue on X are falling flat. The platform formerly known as Twitter, is competing with the likes of TikTok and Youtube whose viral content attracts big advertisers. Alexa Corse covers X for the Journal and told our Tech News Briefing podcast how some creators are left questioning Musk's strategy. X has been trying different efforts, different products, over the past months, but creators say that it's not really still clear to them how that translates to revenue or a sustainable business. One creator told me advertisers are the foundation of the creator economy. And if X is going to offer to share advertising revenue, the question is how much are advertisers going to be spending? And we know X has been struggling to attract advertisers, especially these big name brands who are nervous about Musk's changes and changes to content rules and other changes he's made to the platform. And you can hear more about X's struggles to attract content creators on today's Tech News Briefing podcast. The US has dropped eight places in the annual World Happiness Report, falling from 15th place to 23rd. Clare Ansberry writes the Turning Points column for The Journal. She says The drop is in large part because of unhappiness among younger Americans. So young people are sadder for several reasons, and a key one is loneliness. They spend less time interacting with people in person and don't feel as connected as they used to to their jobs or other institutions like churches. And they're also worried about money, about being able to find affordable housing and buy groceries and global issues like the war in the Middle East and climate change. It is the first time the U.S. is not among the top 20 happiest countries since the global ranking began in 2012. Afghanistan is still the unhappiest country in the world while Nordic countries dominate the top 10, with Finland at the very top. And finally, the first games of the NCAA tournament have begun. This year's March madness gets underway amid a push for unionization in college sports most recently at Dartmouth. What questions do you have about that and what it means for colleges, athletes, and sports in general? Send us a note or even better record a voice memo on your phone and send it to wnpod@WSJ.com. That is W-N-P-O-D at wsj.com. You can also leave us a voicemail at 212 416 4328. Just be sure to include your name and location because we might use it on the show. And that's What's News for Wednesday morning. Today's show was produced by Hattie Moir and Kate Bullivant. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kilhof. And I'm Peter Granitz for the Wall Street Journal, filling in for Luke Vargas. We'll be back tonight with a new show. Until then, thanks for listening. All three major US indexes soared to new records after the Fed holds rates steady. And, what's happening at the Southern Border with a Texas immigration law on hold. We're at the point now where we have been for the last 150 years of the federal government still being in charge of federal Border EnforcementAnnmarie Fertoli: Plus, why Wall Street is investing in law firms in Arizona. It's Wednesday, March 20th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli with the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. After a two-day policy meeting, Federal Reserve officials didn't significantly change their economic outlook. Most officials penciled in three rate cuts this year in their new projections. Still, some officials expect fewer cuts this year than they did back then. So with that in mind, back to a question we've asked a bunch of times this year, and we know Wall Street is waiting, are we still on track for these cuts and when? I asked our chief economics commentator, Greg Ip. We are still on track for rate cuts this year. And going into Wednesday's Federal Reserve meeting, investors thought that June was the likeliest month, that the Fed would start cutting rates. Coming out of the meeting, they still think June is the most likely. In their projections, Fed officials said they still see three-quarter point rate cuts this year. I suppose if you wanted to read some significance into this though, you'd find that there were a few officials among the group that thought there would only be two. So there's been a little bit more sort of hawkishness with respect to the outlook for inflation, which means that on the margin, maybe there's a little bit less likelihood of big rate cuts this year. So the Fed kept the projections pretty steady despite solid economic growth and inflation that was a little higher than expected in January and February. So what does that signal to us? Chair Jerome Powell, in his remarks to reporters, made it clear that he still thinks that inflation is progressing towards a lower level of around 2%, which is their target. The January and February data, he portrayed those as probably driven by seasonal noise, not indicative of the underlying trend. Now, he has made it clear in the past that what the Fed is looking for is confidence that inflation is headed towards 2% from above 3%. So to the extent that the January and February data didn't add to their confidence that that's happening, it didn't really give him the green light to go ahead. But I think one of the main takeaways from today is that it clearly didn't give them a red light and not really even a yellow light either. Powell still seems to be generally constructive and optimistic that things are falling into place the way he hopesAnnmarie Fertoli: All three major US indexes closed at record highs after the Fed's announcement. The last time the Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq all closed a record on the same day was more than two years ago on November 8th, 2021. We've been covering the Supreme court's decision to allow Texas to enforce its own immigration law, allowing the state to arrest and deport non-citizens. As you heard this morning, just hours after that decision, Tuesday, an Appeals Court reversed course, blocking any state efforts to enforce the law for now. The on-again, off-again legal showdown between Texas and the Biden administration meanwhile is causing confusion at the Southern Border. Joining me now is Elizabeth Findell, our US news reporter in Texas. Welcome, Elizabeth. Thanks for having me. So Elizabeth, we knew yesterday's Supreme Court decision was not the final word here. This is still playing out in the lower courts that Appeals Court halted enforcing the law hours after the Supreme Court decision. And today there was a hearing on the matter by the same court, the Fifth Circuit. What did the court discuss? This was a three-judge panel and they asked questions of the attorneys for Texas and the attorneys for the United States. Two of the judges seemed to differ pretty sharply in their interpretations of the judge. We had Chief Judge Priscilla Richman, an appointee of George W. Bush, who seemed pretty skeptical of the law. She noted that no state has ever done this before, questioned how deportations would be carried out. And then you have Judge Andrew Oldham, who is a Trump appointee, and previously worked for a long time for Texas Governor Abbott who seemed more sympathetic to the state's arguments and kind of questioned how we could know that all elements of the law are invalid when it has never been tested. So is there any other action pending right now? Do we have a sense of what might be next? Well, the question before the Fifth Circuit right now is whether or not to keep this law on pause while further legal proceedings play out. And they did not give an indication during the hearing of when they will make a decision on that question. Meanwhile, Elizabeth, as we have been reporting, there's been some confusion on the ground. How is all of this playing out at the Southern Border? Really, there hasn't been much happening. The law was very briefly yesterday allowed to go into effect, but that didn't really give the state time to actually start going through the process of these types of arrests. So presently, nothing has really changed enforcement-wise. The state does arrest people for criminal trespass if they're on private property, which is not an immigration charge, and they either give them that state misdemeanor charge for criminal trespass if they're on private property or they hand them over to the federal government.,But either way, they hand people over to Border Patrol. That's our US news reporter, Elizabeth Findell. Coming up, hedge funds, private equity groups and other investors are exploring stakes in law firms in Arizona. We'll explain why after the break. We report exclusively that the US Justice Department is considering whether to allow WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange to plead guilty to a reduced charge of mishandling classified information. That's according to people familiar with the matter. This opens up the possibility of a deal that could eventually result in Assange's release from a London prison where he's been since 2019. Any deal would require approval at the highest levels of the Justice Department. A DOJ spokesman declined to comment. Assange, who is 52, is fighting a drawn-out legal battle with the British government to avoid being extradited to the US to face trial for publishing thousands of confidential US military records and diplomatic cables around 2010. A new bid is in for Paramount Global's film and TV studio. We report exclusively that private equity firm Apollo Global Management has made an $11 billion offer for the company. That's according to people familiar with the situation. An independent committee of directors is currently reviewing another offer from Skydance Media to merge with all of Paramount, which owns CBS and Nickelodeon. Paramount has long been an acquisition target, but the company's controlling shareholder Shari Redstone and other board members have resisted selling the studio, which they consider the crown jewel of the company. Apollo's offer is a big one. It's more than the entire market capitalization of Paramount Global, which currently stands at around $7.7 billion. The Biden administration is enacting the strictest ever rules for tailpipe emissions, but it's also giving the car industry more time to comply. The rules released today by the Environmental Protection Agency ratchet up more gradually than regulators originally proposed, pushing the industry toward majority EV sales by early next decade. The less aggressive rollout is a win for traditional automakers who had lobbied hard for a slower implementation as the pace of US EV sales decelerates. The new rules apply to light duty vehicles. Those include cars, sport utility vehicles, and most pickup trucks for model years 2027 through 2032. And, a new skin test can detect Parkinson's disease. The neurodegenerative condition is usually diagnosed by symptoms like tremors, stiffness, slow movements, and problems with balance, which can take years to appear. The new test, a skin biopsy, works by detecting an abnormal protein that people with Parkinson's have inside their nerves. There are only a handful of these tests in use or development. CND Life Sciences is one of the companies that produces them. CND's Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Todd Levine, says the test costs just under $1,500 and is usually covered in part or in full by insurance. He said the goal is to detect Parkinson's before people develop symptoms and treat them with drugs that could slow or stop the disease. An unconventional legal services program in Arizona is attracting Wall Street money. The program was launched three years ago with the goal of expanding access to legal services for people who can't afford or find lawyers. In 2021, the state's Supreme Court lifted a requirement that the owners of law firms need to be attorneys. Since then, non-lawyers have been allowed to open firms known as alternative business structures. Private equity, hedge funds, and other investors are now taking notice. Arizona's program is at the center of debates over how to expand access to legal services and about who profits from the legal ecosystem Here now with more on this story is National Legal Affairs reporter Erin Mulvaney. Welcome, Erin. Thank you. Thank you for having me. So Erin, how did this Arizona program start out? What were the goals of creating a model like this? Arizona and even other states have studied the idea of lifting that barrier that only lawyers can own law firms. But it's a highly controversial notion in the legal world because the idea is that a lawyer has an ethical duty to his client. So there's been some wariness of allowing somebody who's an investor in some way or an entrepreneur have some kind of ownership in these law firms. So this was studied by folks in Arizona as a way to expand legal services, understanding that there's a huge dearth of attorneys for certain services. Some are critical like eviction services or family law, simple things like divorces, property law. It's just hard to find lawyers covering those things. So this was just a way to create a structure that would potentially infuse capital into new businesses and expand legal services. So that was the idea. There wasn't necessarily a specific prescribed thing that these had to be, but it was definitely to address the access to justice issue that Arizona and honestly a lot of other states are confronting. So how is it working a couple of years in? It sounds like there's a wide range of services offered. Yes, it's hard to judge. It still is pretty early in the process, but I looked at all 70 of them that have been approved that are new businesses in Arizona, and some were difficult to research. They're still so new they don't even have an online presence yet. But 1/3 of these firms are mass tort and personal injury firms. And then there are other buckets, legal Zoom type, online services. And then there are some kind of random ones, some niche things like focusing on the metaverse. There's a bounty hunting one. There's some that seem a little dry estate planning and taxes, but they really do range. There seem to be a lot of creative structures out there. Right, really across the board there. Let's get to that investment piece. I really like this quote from your article from Ted Farrell who runs Litigation Funding Advisors. He said, "Every other business is allowed to take growth capital to pay their expenses. The question is how much smart money wants to get in bed with lawyers?" Erin, what's the answer to that when it comes to this program? How much money is Wall Street pouring in? It's hard to give an exact answer to that, but we do have estimate that about 30 to 40% of these businesses have attracted outside investors in the form of private equity or hedge funds. Already, investors do look to mass litigation and to fund litigation around the country, but they don't have an equity stake because like we said, there's that barrier. So it kind of provides a new runway for litigation finance that isn't available in most places. That was Wall Street Journal National Legal Affairs reporter, Erin Mulvaney. And that's What's News for this Wednesday afternoon. Today's show is produced by Pierre Bienaimé and Anthony Bansie with supervising producer Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning.