Hey, What's News listeners. It's Sunday, March 24th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli. And I'm Luke Vargas for The Wall Street Journal. And this is What's News Sunday, the show where we tackle the big questions about the biggest stories in the news by reaching out to our colleagues across the newsroom to help explain what's happening in our world. This week we're answering your questions about food price inflation at the grocery store and at restaurants. It's not your imagination. We're spending more on food, a lot more. As we reported in February, it's been three decades since Americans have spent this much of their income on food. Even though inflation is easing, food prices are still sticky. By way of comparison, back in 1991, according to the Agriculture Department, US consumers spent 11.4% of their disposable personal income on food. And today, USDA data shows we're spending about the same, 11.3% of our disposable income on food. And as Americans are spending, shrinkflation has become a hot topic again. It's when companies shrink their products but not the price. President Biden even referenced it during his State of the Union address earlier this month. The snack companies think you won't notice if they change the size of the bag and put a hell of a lot fewer, same size bag, put fewer chips in it. No, I'm not joking. It's called shrinkflation. It's happening at restaurants too. You may have noticed menu prices have risen. Labor Department data shows prices for food eaten away from home were up 30% in January, compared with the same month in 2019. So how did we get here and how are companies and consumers coping? Joining me now to answer these questions and more is Wall Street Journal restaurant reporter, Heather Haddon. Welcome, Heather. Thanks so much. So let's start with how we got here. Here's a question from one of our listeners, Anne Palladis. She says, "What is the primary driver of food inflation? Labor cost? I belong to a 20 week farm share program, and the program fee increased by 20%, yet the sun and the rain still shine, and can't imagine seeds cost that much more, and they are a minor part of the food cost." We've talked a lot on What's News about persistent price pressures, some that just no matter what, seem not to ease with the rest of inflation. I think everyone sees the inflation that has taken place at grocery stores, at restaurants. I mean, the last couple of years, prices have just gone up by a really exceptional amount that has accumulated. I asked our colleague Jesse Newman, who covers food and agriculture, why food prices are so sticky. She says part of the reason is because once those prices go up, food companies are reluctant to bring them back down again. After all, food isn't one of those discretionary goods you only buy every once in a while or can put off. We've got to eat. But, Heather, what else is going on here? Why else is food staying so expensive right now? There's a lot of inputs in food. So that cocoa that isn't a chocolate bar, it's really expensive right now. That is not going down. Maybe you're seeing certain parts of what you buy at the grocery store get a little more reasonable. Say that the oils that got shot up during the earlier part of the Ukraine war have gotten more reasonable. Other parts haven't. Food is complex. But I think the other really important part is labor. Labor is not going down. And particularly for restaurants, that labor cost is growing, whether it's from minimum wage increases or just the competition for labor. And given that labor is such a big part of what factors into a restaurant's cost, it's not going down and so those prices are not going down as well. So we mentioned shrinkflation, as did the president a bit earlier. That's one of the ways we've seen companies deal with higher food costs. One of our listeners, David Franco, has a question about how companies respond. I have heard food companies highlight the strength of the consumer when discussing their ability to keep prices high. However, consumers are dipping further into their savings to handle higher costs. Is there more that food companies can do to reduce prices in the short term? One of the big questions is are food companies making a profit off all this price increase and that's something we are trying to investigate ourselves. What's the dynamic between profits and price? The food companies tend to say that they are only increasing prices just to cover their costs, but it is a valid question whether they have shareholders to respond to as well, and there's different dynamics that influence these food companies when it comes to price. So what are companies doing to bring the price down? I mean, on the restaurant side, they're offering deals and discounts. You could say that about grocery stores too. I mean, they are trying to bring back some promotions because they realize that a lot of consumers are feeling fatigued. So that's not necessarily dropping the prices for good, but it is trying to incentivize people to come back by offering buy one get one free or coupons or deals on their apps. A lot of grocers and restaurants have been doing that. We've seen other solutions used by companies to deal with food price inflation. Wendy's got a lot of flak last month for its dynamic pricing strategy. The company got so much backlash, it had to release a statement explicitly disavowing surge pricing. Yes, it was a pretty innocuous comment by Wendy's during their earnings call where their new CEO, this is his first earnings call, talked about different things they're looking to do. But then they also made a comment about dynamic pricing is something that they're exploring, but they really didn't give much detail at all about it, and they definitely did not say surge pricing in there. So it was not a good PR day for Wendy's, that's for sure and certainly a tough intro to giving earnings calls for the CEO. But, Heather, don't companies use this strategy, increasing prices when there's higher demand? There's been different prices for different parts of the day forever. We all love happy hours, and happy hours have been around for a long time, and that's an example of discounted pricing at a slower shoulder part of the day where a bar tends to be less busy. So this is also flipping the switch and when there's higher demand for a restaurant, particularly on let's say on a weekend, when it's coming to delivery and that delivery occasion, restaurants are now experimenting with increasing prices then. Coming up, we've covered how we got here and how companies are handling food price inflation, but how about us, the consumers? We'll get to more of your comments and questions after the break. Heather, more than 600 readers have commented on your article showing the broad range of ways consumers are dealing with higher prices. Let's talk about some of them. This is a tough one for me, but going out to eat less frequently. Listener Vincent LoNigro says-Vincent LoNigro: How do I deal with food cost inflation at restaurants? So in addition to eating out less, my girlfriend and I try to avoid restaurants with the credit card surcharge. When we can't avoid those establishments, I always pay cash to avoid the fee. Familiar workarounds that you've heard before, Heather? Yeah. Consumers really are hunting for ways that they can save money and are really focused on restaurants and what they can do. One thing is just the, "I'm not going to restaurants anymore." There are some consumers who are just skipping restaurants altogether and just cooking really a lot more at home. There's others that are going out for lunch instead of dinner. I mean, dinner tends to be more expensive. But I talked to a fair amount of people who are just saying, "I'm just not going out to fast food period. It's just gotten too expensive and it's not worth it." Others are really looking for those deals on the apps. All the restaurants now really offer a lot of promotions. A lot of consumers and readers are really making sure they download all those apps and use it anytime there's a coupon. Speaking of looking for a deal, my mother does this. She's been known to go to three grocery stores in a single day looking for the best price. I'd rather stick to one location and pay a little more, plus there's added gas money that you're paying for that. Some of our commenters said they like to go to Aldi or Lidl for deals, even if the general food selection there is smaller. Are you seeing shopping habits changing more in this way? Absolutely. Yeah. Particularly Aldi, just because in part because there's more locations, and Lidl, are really becoming popular with people who maybe wouldn't shop there in the past. Maybe they'd go to Whole Foods or Wegmans or just more upscale stores are finding what they need at some of these kind of Aldi, Lidl, type grocery stores, which offer pretty good private label goods and they're just cheaper. So a lot of people are switching either part of their shopping or all of their shopping. Some people are going to Walmart more. Some people are just trading down to the Costco, the cheaper option for groceries because just their normal, more mainstream grocery store, it feels too expensive to them. And to pick up on that point, one of our listeners, Sharon Felton from Underhill, Vermont says she only buys what's on sale and then plans her meals around those sale items. So once a month she even skips the supermarket trip and just eats whatever's in the pantry. Yeah, I actually, I do think that is a trend, that a lot of the readers we talked to said they make sure that they look at their pantry before they go to the grocery store. So they really take stock of what they have in their cabinets before going to buy more because they want to make sure to use the food they already have and not waste food. That's also a broader theme. We also did talk to people who said they're really planning the meals around things that are more affordable, more economical, just not as exotic or expensive ingredients to stretch their money further. So, here's another creative solution from one of our listeners, Nancy Randall from Houston, Texas. WeNancy Randall: Are virtually eating out of our freezer these days instead of buying meat in the grocery store. We hunt and gather our food. We hunt deer every year and we fish. And so we've been eating fish and venison probably up to four times a week and going through our freezer a lot quicker than we normally do because of the food prices in the grocery store. Heather, she's hunting and gathering. Yeah, she was not alone either. It was really remarkable how many folks wrote to us and said that they are hunting. We also had people who have little gardens in there by their homes and are really saving money. You have to know what you're doing. I mean, they have to know how to hunt and you have to know how to grow vegetables to be able to make this successful and actually save you money. But if that's your hobby already and you're passionate about it and you're good at it, then go for it. Heather, one last topic I'd like to hit. That certainly came across from a lot of our commenters. People seem annoyed and even angry. Consumer spending, as we know, drives three quarters of the US economy. Are we seeing consumers pull back in a significant way due to higher food prices? Yeah. The consumer sentiment has not been great for a while and one of the reasons is some of these food prices. People see prices change at their grocery store, at their restaurant, and it adds up. It's something that's very in your face. It's like gasoline prices. You notice it and you get irritated. It's like, "Why aren't the prices like they used to be? Please bring me back to 2019 or 2009." And for some of these food companies, it is impacting the volume of business. It is impacting their sales. When people get irritated, and irritated for this long, that food price has gone up, they do start walking away. Is there an end in sight? Broader inflation's easing, food prices, as we've talked about, are one of those sticky categories. When might food inflation come down or better yet stop altogether? Well, if you look at the inflation numbers at the grocery store, it has flattened out. There's some analysts who say there might be deflation this year. Some categories might get cheaper. Restaurant prices though are still going up. And again, a lot of that has to do with that labor. That labor cost is not going down and restaurants need workers. So I wouldn't expect restaurant prices to fall, but they should go up much more slowly than they were. I've been speaking with Wall Street Journal restaurant reporter Heather Haddon. Thank you so much, Heather. Thank you. And that's it for What's News Sunday for March 24th. Today's show was produced by Charlotte Gartenberg with supervising producer Michael Kosmides. We got help from our deputy editors, Scott Saloway and Chris Zinsli. I'm Annmarie Fertoli. We'll be back on Monday morning with a new show. Thanks for listening.