 Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. China plans a trillion-un bond sale to hit an ambitious 5% economic growth target. China's world's second largest economy. You know, there are actually more countries in the world that count. China as their top trading partner than the US. So that gives you a sense of how this could ripple around the world. Plus, the US welcomes a top Israeli opposition leader to Washington as White House frustration with Israel's wartime conduct mounts. And a potentially maker-break day for Nikki Haley as 15 states head to the polls. It's Super Tuesday, March 5th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal and here is the AM edition of What's New. The top headlines and business stories moving your world today. Bitcoin is within striking distance of its all-time high. The largest cryptocurrency by market value briefly crossed $68,000 last night, just $990 from its previous record before dropping slightly this morning. He was market's reporter, Caitlin McCabe. Bitcoin is an incredibly volatile asset. So I'm personally always a bit wary of making strong predictions of where it will go. But that being said, we are seeing Bitcoin on this pretty incredible run this year. It's prices risen by more than 50 percent. And some people are feeling pretty optimistic about its trajectory, especially given the excitement around Bitcoin ETFs. But it's important to keep in mind that we've been here before. You know, people were feeling really optimistic the last time we saw Bitcoin trade consistently above $60,000 in November 2021, only for it to finish in the $40,000 range by the end of that year. Bitcoin's climb has been aided by the early success of exchange traded funds that hold the cryptocurrency. Just last week, the BlackRock I shares Bitcoin trust, a clipped $10 billion in assets, becoming the fastest ever new ETF to reach that milestone. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos has reclaimed the title as the world's richest person, nudging Elon Musk into second place, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Shares in Tesla have dropped by 24 percent year to date, dragging Musk's net worth down by $31 billion so far this year. The news also comes as Musk is being sued by four former Twitter executives claiming that he owes them more than $128 million in severance. The year-long dispute originates from Musk's takeover of the social media platform where he fired the executives for negligence and willful misconduct, which they deny. Musk's lawyer has declined to comment on the suit. And regulators probing the mid-air blowout on Alaska Airlines plane in January have found that Boeing allegedly failed to comply with quality control requirements in manufacturing. That comes after the Federal Aviation Administration carried out a six-week audit of Boeing and manufacturing partner Spirit Aerosystems in response to the incident. In order to hold Boeing accountable, the FAA says it's halted production expansion of the company's 737 MAX planes and will continue its on-site presence at Boeing and Spirit's manufacturing facilities. China has set a 5 percent growth target for this year. A rate higher than many economists had expected and adding pressure on Beijing to deliver as economic challenges mount. It is one of the big announcements to come out of the annual gathering of top Chinese policymakers known as the two sessions meetings, which got underway in earnest today and which offer a number of clues but the direction the country's leaders which to take it. Jonathan Cheng is the journal's Beijing Bureau Chief and he joins me now with a look at China's latest growth forecast and the plans to jumpstart the world's second-largest economy. Jonathan 5 percent what should we make of this growth target? Well first of all it's exactly the same as the number that we had for last year which perhaps predictably they did succeed in making. They very rarely missed their growth targets. It definitely is an indicator both of what they think the economy is going to do as well as what they might do in terms of stimulus to attain that target. So it is very closely watched and it is interesting that they're able to keep it at that same level because most outside forecasters, if you look at the IMF or the World Bank or others, they'll tell you that growth is probably right now on a trajectory to hit something like four and a half or four point six percent this year. But again that's knowing what we know right now and that would be in the absence of stimulus. So to say five percent suggests that there may be some more juicing of the economy from the Chinese government this year. What plans are we hearing about taking shape in order to hit this target given that they barely hit it last year? You said perhaps predictably they did hit it but it was touch-and-go watching from abroad. It was touch-and-go but the worst stimulus measures last year, nothing like what we saw during the financial crisis but they did need to rely on that to get to their target. This year what we heard from the Premier Lietien was he told us one that we're going to hit five percent growth and two that we're going to get there in part by issuing one trillion Chinese yuan of ultra long special bonds issued by the central government. One trillion yuan is about 140 billion dollars so it is a substantial sum and what's notable about it is that they've only done this three previous times in the past quarter century that is issuing one of these ultra long special bonds from the central government and the previous three times were during the Asian financial crisis in 1998 during the global financial crisis in 2007-2008 and then during the COVID-19 outbreak in 2020. So that does say something about the mindset of Beijing's leadership. Given this expectation of another year of five percent growth setting up at least a two-year plateauing of what was once a very steep growth curve, what does this all mean for the rest of the world economically speaking for the year ahead and beyond really? Well obviously China's world's second largest economy so it is one that is very plugged into many other countries and their economic futures. Are there actually more countries in the world that count China as their top trading partner than the US? So that gives you a sense of how this could ripple around the world. Of course China's economy has been in a bit of a funk for the last couple of years. Now there was COVID so the whole world was in a funk you could say but we're now starting to get a pretty clear picture that China is not going to be able to be that engine of growth in the same way that it was for the decade or two prior to COVID. It was always inevitable that it would plateau. It's just the speed with which it's happening is the surprising part that is what is going to be difficult for the rest of the world to be able to digest whether you're selling natural resources to China like Australia, Canada and many other countries or whether you're trying to sell goods into China to Chinese consumers. If China does turn as many economists expect it to towards exporting more of its goods that it can't sell at home then you may start to see a lot of Chinese goods, electric vehicle solar panels and other things flooding the world market and that is potentially going to have a disinflationary effect on the world and maybe that sounds like a relief after a couple of years of worrying about inflation being too high but it will of course threaten a lot of electric vehicle industries in other countries to give one example you may see trade protectionism start to grow again and that may lead to a very different picture than we have today. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal Beijing, Bureuchief Jonathan Chang. Coming up the UN finds grounds to believe that sexual violence including rape occurred during Hamas's October 7th attacks on Israel plus the Supreme Court temporarily blocks a Texas law allowing police to arrest migrants, those stories and more after the break. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most ad-free top podcasts so we know they definitely have something for you and it's already included in your prime membership. To start listening download the Amazon Music app for free or visit amazon.com-slash-what's-news that's amazon.com-slash-what's-news it's just that easy. Music A UN report has concluded that there are reasons to believe sexual violence including rape occurred during Hamas's October 7th attacks on Israel in which 1200 people were killed and about 250 taken hostage. The report from the UN's special representative on sexual violence in conflict also found clear and credible evidence that female hostages were raped but did not have enough information to attribute the sexual violence in rape to Hamas or any other armed groups. Hamas officials have denied that its fighters raped women but the group didn't immediately respond to a request for comment on the UN findings. Meanwhile after conducting humanitarian air drops into Gaza over the weekend, Journal Middle East correspondent Jared Moussen told me that the US is exploring more ways to address the humanitarian situation in the territory. After Vice President Kamala Harris called conditions there inhumane. US officials are saying they're exploring a range of options to get aid in. They're also looking into a maritime corridor potentially to bring aid from somewhere like Cyprus across the Mediterranean and this is an expression of the Biden administration's increasing frustration with the Israeli government where they are trying to without using coercive means like cutting off the supply of weapons for the war in Gaza. They're using other means to show that they're not happy with the situation by essentially going around the border crossings that are largely controlled by Israel, basically trying every other means at their disposal. And Jared, in terms of the state of the US Israel relationship now, we saw yesterday that Benny Gauntz, a key figure in Israel's war cabinet, traveled to DC to meet with US officials in spite of objections from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. What should we read into that? The Gauntz visit is very significant because it's another pressure point that the administration has on the Israeli government. Gauntz, of course, is an opposition leader and he represents an alternative to Netanyahu if that government were ever to fall apart. And it's another way of signaling to Netanyahu and to the government that they're not happy with the status quo that they have other lines of influence and to the government and into Israeli politics potentially. It was journal Middle East correspondent Jared Moussen. The Supreme Court has temporarily blocked a Texas law that allows police to arrest migrants who enter the US illegally and order them to leave the country. The law, known as Senate Bill 4, had been set to take effect on Saturday. However, in order issued by the Supreme Court yesterday, it means it's now been placed on hold for at least a week. Republican governor Greg Abbott signed the law in December as part of a series of border measures that have tested how far a state can go to keep migrants from entering the country, marking a legal showdown over the federal government's authority over immigration. And the primary season's busiest day, Super Tuesday, is upon us, with voters in 15 states set to cast ballots for their party's nominee for president. It could be a pivotal day for Nikki Haley's long shot bid to stop Donald Trump from securing the Republican nomination. With more than a third of all GOP delegates up for grabs today and many states awarding them on a winner-take-all basis, even strong second-place finishes could leave her empty-handed. After holding events in Virginia, North Carolina, Massachusetts, Vermont, and Maine in recent days, all of which vote today, Haley tried to drum up enthusiasm in Texas last night. In a general election, we're given a choice. In a primary, we make our choice. It's time for us to make that choice. And we'll have more on what to watch for as voting gets underway on this evening's What's News podcast, along with live results on WSJ.com. And finally, an experimental new drug from Vertex Pharmaceuticals could be a game-changer for pain treatment without the risk of addiction. The opioid crisis means that doctors no longer prescribe opioids as easily as they once did because of the addictive side effects, even though millions of Americans still suffer from debilitating pain. David Wainer writes about health care for the journals heard on the street column, and he says that a non-opioid drug from Vertex could pave the way for better pain killers. Think of the opportunity here, less as the big obesity bonanza bringing in tens of billions of dollars in annual sales of pharma companies like Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk, and more like the slow, but promising progress being made in fighting Alzheimer's. While its drug didn't beat opioid-based Vycadin in acute pain studies, it didn't now perform Lyrica, an older drug, in diabetic neuropathy patients. Vertex's results are likely to unleash more investment in research into this class of sodium channel blockers. And since Vertex will be able to claim its drug isn't addictive, it should establish a decent-sized market. Investors have added about $20 billion to Vertex's market cap in recent months, with some Wall Street analysts describing the pain market as the next big investment opportunity in health care. And that is what's news for Tuesday morning. Today's show was produced by capable of it and hadimoire. Our supervising producer is Sandra Killhoff and I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. And until then, thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.  Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. It's Super Tuesday and voters in 15 states are casting their ballots. And how smaller banks ran into problems when they tried to grow bigger. How did they let these risks build up? Why wasn't somebody saying, oh, you've got too much of this interest rate risk? Well, some of that was due to just how much the bank had grown. Plus, Bitcoin prices soared to a new record. It's Tuesday, March 5th. I'm Ann Marie for Tolly for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. It's primary season's biggest day, Super Tuesday, and voters in 15 states, including California, Texas, North Carolina and Virginia are casting their ballots. Most of these states are expected to fall either solidly Democratic or Republican. Though when it comes to the general election, North Carolina is a question mark. We're also watching to see whether this will be the last stand for Nikki Haley, as she mounts a long shot bid to prevent Donald Trump from securing the GOP nomination for president. And President Biden is facing protest voting, as we saw on Michigan's primary last Tuesday from those angry over his supportive Israel's military campaign against Hamas. Let's jump in with our National Political Reporter, Eliza Collins. Welcome back Eliza. Hi, good to be here. Alright, so as we talked about last time you were here, Haley has vowed to stay in the race through Super Tuesday. So what does today mean for her presidential bid? Today really, it could be the end, although we don't know, to your point, Haley has said repeatedly she's only thought through Super Tuesday. She has no ads booked after today. She does have money if she chooses to keep going. But what she has said so far is that the nomination should not be decided off of a handful of states. Until now, really just a handful of states have voted. After tonight, we will be more than halfway there. And Haley is not able to significantly turn things around. Her argument gets even harder. So then how close could Trump get to securing the nomination after tonight? Trump will not have enough delegates after tonight, even if he wins every state, but he will be very close. He could secure them all as soon as March 12th, if he wins by wide enough margins tonight and then on March 12th. Otherwise, by March 19th, I mean, we're looking really within days to a couple of weeks away from Trump becoming the Republican nominee. More than a dozen states are holding primaries today and you've flagged some to keep an especially close eye on. What are you watching? Well, I like California because it's a traditionally blue state, but it will matter tonight on the GOP side because if Trump clears a majority of the vote in California, he will get all 169 delegates. And that is a huge boost in his quest for the nomination. Haley really needs to keep him below that 50% line if she wants to get delegates. Also in California, separate from the presidential race is a closely watched Senate primary. We expect it to elect a Democrat for the open Senate seat come November. But what we are watching for is who ends up in that general election from tonight. And it's been three major names. Congressman Adam Schiff and Congresswoman Katie Porter along with Congresswoman Barbara Lee have been the three Democrats vying for the seat. Schiff and Porter have proven to be some of the strongest fundraisers in the House and really in politics in general. But there is a Republican Steve Garvey, a former baseball player, is also running. He looks at this moment like he might take the second slot. Adam Schiff looks like he's going to take the first. So the question is, is it going to be basically Adam Schiff's Senate seat that we would know today? Or will it be a matchup between Schiff and Porter that will be expensive and ugly going into November? You mentioned North Carolina. North Carolina is the only battleground state voting on Tuesday. So we're really interested to see who shows up for which candidate we like to watch primaries as sort of an indicator for November to watch how key voting groups will vote. Let's talk about President Biden in Michigan. Some voters cast their ballots is uncommitted in protest of his foreign policy, especially concerning the Israel-Hamos war. Is that protest movement growing and what's at stake for him tonight? So similar to what we were saying about Trump, we expect President Biden to be the Democratic nominee in November. Like Trump, he could secure the nomination as early as this month. We expect him to win all of the states tonight, barring any major surprises. But what we are watching for is signs of weakness. And one huge sign of weakness we've seen with his base is this frustration from progressives and young voters over US support for Israel. And it's war against Hamas, particularly for the humanitarian crisis going on in Gaza. So we are watching several other states where there have been efforts, including Minnesota, to show protest votes. And I don't know how big those margins will be or even if they will be organized in the way they were for Michigan. But that's certainly something I imagine the Biden campaign is going to be watching tonight. That's Wall Street Journal, National Political Reporter, Eliza Collins. You can follow along as results start coming in from around 6 p.m. Eastern time with our live coverage at WSJ.com. Sticking with political news, Arizona Senator Kirsten Sinema has announced she won't run for re-election and will retire after this term. Sinema, an independent who left the Democratic Party in 2022, played a pivotal role in bipartisan deals, but angered progressives. She would have faced an uphill re-election battle had she decided to run. The race to replace her could now decide control of the Senate, where Democrats and Independents aligned with the party currently have a thin 51-49 majority. Bitcoin prices soared to a new record today in a rally that's defied the expectations of analysts and investors. The biggest cryptocurrency by market value briefly crossed $69,000, surpassing its prior all-time high from late 2021. That's according to Dow Jones market data. Cryptocurrency's reporter, Kate Lennastrov. The Valley has, in part, been driven by the approval of exchange traded funds that are able to hold Bitcoin itself. That has led to an increased demand for Bitcoin. But we were looking at some data which suggests that a lot of the buying of Bitcoin, at least from small traders or large traders, seems to be happening on finance. It seems to indicate that a lot of the interest is coming from outside the US, because finances in XUS exchange. It seems like there's a lot of interest just globally in Bitcoin pushing up the price. Coming up, larger banks have more insulation from the pressures their smaller peers face. But there are risks in going from a mid-size lender to a bigger one. We'll have more after the break. Hey, what's news fans? Listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your Prime Membership? That's right, all your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music Add Free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown, Add Free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most Add Free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your Prime Membership. To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free or visit amazon.com slash what's news. That's amazon.com slash what's news. It's just that easy. China plans to boost its military spending by 7.2% this year. That matches the pace of last year's expansion and builds on more than 20 years of continued defense upgrades. Chinese leader Xi Jinping is on an expensive campaign to modernize the country's armed forces. According to a draft report, total military expenditure this year will reach the equivalent of about $232 billion. The International Criminal Court based in the Hague has issued a rest warrants for two Russian commanders accused of targeting Ukraine's power grid. They're charged with directing missiles against Ukrainian power plants and distribution stations. Acts that would violate the humanitarian law prohibition on targeting civilian facilities. The Russian Embassy in Washington didn't immediately respond to request for comment. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky welcomed the ICC's action. And in Haiti, heavily armed gangs freed close to 5,000 prisoners and forced the closure of two airports late Monday. Meanwhile, the whereabouts of the Prime Minister are unknown. The survival of Haiti's government is in doubt, though it has imposed a curfew of 6 p.m. to 5 a.m. through Wednesday. Security in Haiti began deteriorating sharply over the weekend when a coalition of gangs targeted prisons and police stations. How big is too big when it comes to banks? Recent regional banking crises have revived debates over the size of lenders. That's because larger banks have been more insulated from some of the pressures roiling their regional peers. But expanding also comes with challenges and risks. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal, heard on the street writer, Tellus Demos. Welcome back, Tellus. Thanks for having me. So the past disability is not as simple as just growing bigger as we learned from near community bank or that's right. Growing a small or medium sized bank into a larger bank is we are seeing a very complicated thing. One of the challenges is simply fast growth at a bank can bring with it lots of changes in the nature of the bank's business, how the bank manages its various risks and other exposures and how the bank is managed. The US banking regulatory system is broken up in many cases by tears of banks. That is by design. Congress has over the years passed various laws that suggest that rules should be tailored to the size of banks with the presumption being that bigger banks are riskier and therefore should be the most heavily regulated that smaller banks maybe they are at more individual risk of failure. But they are not as systemically important and therefore it's not as necessary to regulate them to the same degree. So what happens as a bank grows bigger in some cases that means that the bank has to change its practices dramatically. It also means that different kinds of supervisors, different kinds of examiners that are looking at the bank start to take over. And what we've learned from the post-mortem reports done by regulators after the crisis last March was that sometimes those transitions can be very challenging, right? So you mentioned last March and the banking crisis back then it seems like it was something similar that happened with Silicon Valley Bank. Silicon Valley Bank grew enormously during the pandemic. It gathered a lot more deposits. It grew in asset size. That was a big part of the story of how it got to what eventually happened in March of 2023. They took in a lot more deposits. So Silicon Valley Bank was growing a lot during that time. It grew tremendously and it would jump up between regulatory tiers. And when the Fed looked at, they said, okay, what are the things that led up to the crisis last year? One thing they found was that, well, it looked like that was a difficult transition. Different groups of supervisors would take over for another one. How one level of supervisors looked at it versus another wasn't necessarily consistent. And so banks getting bigger has been a big part of some of the recent crises and other concerns that we've seen about banks. This reminds me a lot of the debates over too big to fail. But if the solution is not growing bigger, what is the solution? Should banks grow smaller? What's the answer? Well, some people might say that you should flatten out regulation. Maybe all banks, regardless of their size, should be regulated the same or very similarly. Maybe that would mean that banks aren't hopping between tiers. But again, the legislative preference and the preference of a lot of people in this country would be that we don't want small banks to be as regulated as big banks. We also like having lots of banks. There are lots of people who think that having tons of smaller banks is good for customers. It's good for communities, especially in parts of the country where that are more rural or that aren't necessarily served by a very large bank because that bank just doesn't see a lot of potential in a small town. And so it's not easy to say, okay, let's just have a bunch of very large banks. And some people would say that that pushes the burden to taxpayers to backstop all these too big to fail banks. But it does suggest that there just needs to be maybe more thought and attention paid to how banks get bigger. Banking is just a really tricky thing to do. And maybe the answer ultimately is that we're going to have bank failures from time to time. And we need to learn to just sort of accept that as part of the process. Maybe we need to think about expanding deposit insurance to a wider range of customers. Maybe the accounts of an account that goes over the $250,000 limit, but belongs to a small business. Maybe that should be protected by deposit insurance, even though it's a relatively large account or a business account. So there's a lot of different ways that you can imagine solving this. But I don't think we're anywhere close to a consensus about which of those paths makes the most sense. That's Wall Street Journal heard on the street writer, Tellestimos. And that's what's news for this Tuesday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre Bienemé and Anthony Vancey, with supervising producer Michael Kusmedi's. I'm Anne Marie for Toley for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.