 A House vote today takes aim at TikTok in its Chinese parent company. It's not a ban, it's a forced separation. Could a fierce last-minute lobbying campaign change the bill's bipartisan support? I mean, Martinez, that's Leyla Faddle, and this is up first from NPR News. Unfounded conspiracy theories about non-citizens voting are back this election year, and they're taking even deeper hold with many Republicans. It's not only creating the hysteria, but this idea that only certain people should be allowed to participate in the process. And with Israel blocking most age shipments to Gaza by land, aid groups are turning to the sea to feed starving people. CPM, I always keep protected, and that support and water is a universal right. Stay with us, we'll give you the news you need to start your day. The following message comes from NPR-sponsor Sadfa. Founder and CEO Ron Rudson is on a mission to bring quality sleep to more people. Health and wellness are so tied to quality sleep, and I'm trying to tell everyone, look, you have to treat sleep like an activity, because I believe sleep is the most important thing in your life. To learn more, go to SWATvA.com-slash-NPR. This message comes from NPR-sponsor Cox. With gig speeds everywhere, you have the power to stay connected with the speed you need on all your connected devices. Learn more at Cox.com. By the time your evening commute rolls around, or maybe your afternoon stroll, you've already got the headlines. So let your mind wander away from the front page with here and now any time, a podcast from NPR and WBUR. We'll keep you up to speed on the stories that matter, and introduce you to people living the news. Not just commenting on it. It's here and now any time. The house today overwhelmingly passed a bill that would force TikTok to divest from its Chinese parent company or face a ban in the US. Bipartisan supporters of the bill say Congress needs to step in because TikTok is a threat to national security. TikTok pushes back against this argument, saying that banning the social media platform amounts to a flagrant violation of free speech. The legislation will now head to the Senate. NPR Congressional correspondent Deerter Wallace joins us now to talk about all this. Hi, Deerter. Good morning. Good morning. So why do lawmakers want this bill now? The lawmakers from both parties who support the bill argue users' data privacy is not protected. It's collected and shared with Chinese officials. They say they influence the content that's pushed out to US users. They say the app is targeted journalist and interfered in elections. The FBI director Christopher Ray testified this week about his security concerns. Intel officials held classified briefings for House members on their assessments. We haven't seen all the details of those assessments. But these lawmakers say the app that's used by over 170 million Americans shouldn't be controlled by a foreign government, they say it's hostile to US interests. So this bill requires the company by chance to divest within six months or be banned on all US app platforms. My galger who chairs the House Select Committee on China, he's the lead Republican sponsor, he pushed back on the idea that this would amount to a total ban. What we're after is it's not a ban, it's a forced separation and the TikTok user experience can continue and improve so long as bite dance doesn't own the company. I talked to Roger Krishnamorthy, he's the top Democrat who helped write the bill. And he says that while TikTok downplays the impact of its owners, he says the top editor of bite dance is a secretary in the Chinese Communist Party. So what has the opposition to the bill been like? It's been a pretty intense lobbying campaign and the last week lawmakers say their offices have been flooded with calls from users who are worried about the future of the app. TikTok launched a push notice to its adult users, it linked their location data on their phone to identify their lawmaker, it connected them by phone to the offices. Galger told me there were younger callers that were crying when they called into office and unfortunately one actually threatened suicide if there's a ban. Opponents are raising big concerns that this is being rushed through the House and some members don't understand the impact that this could have. One of those is Florida Democrat Maxwell Frost, he's 27, the youngest member of Congress. I think that it is a violation of people's first amendment right. TikTok is a place for people to express ideas, I have many small businesses in my district and content creators in my district and I think it's going to drastically impact them too. TikTok declined an interview with NPR but a spokesman maintained the bill would effectively be a total ban and strip away free expression from users, harm businesses who use the app and they oppose the sale of bite dance. You know, it's an election year so I guess I have to ask what are the presidential campaigns saying about all this? President Biden's campaign is on TikTok but the White House has said if the bill gets to his desk he will sign it. Former President Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, actually proposed a ban on TikTok in 2020 when he was in the White House but he recently reversed himself. He said he still has privacy concerns about the app but he's worried if it shuts down users are going to move to Facebook and an interview on CNBC this week he called Facebook the enemy of the people. If the bill makes it through the Senate and Biden signs it, it is expected to end up in court. TikTok has filed lawsuits to fight off other efforts to ban the app and federal courts so far have sided with their argument that blocking the app violates users' first amendment rights. And here's dear to your walls. Thank you. Thank you. It's now official Donald Trump and Joe Biden have each gotten their party's presidential nominations after yesterday's primaries so we could see more of what we've seen from Trump in his primary campaign. Touting, disproven conspiracy theories about non-citizens voting. These theories are not new in American politics. They've been around for more than a century despite studies and election officials saying it doesn't really happen. But with huge numbers of migrants crossing the southern border in recent months the narrative looks to be taking hold again in Republican circles. And here's Miles Parks covers voting and he has new reporting to share about this. Good morning, Miles. Hey, good morning. So Donald Trump has basically been talking about undocumented immigrants voting by the millions for quite a while but this year it's not just him, right? Right. Yeah, we're seeing influential conservatives behind the scenes starting to fixate on it as well. The PR acquired a two-page memo being circulated by an attorney named Clea Mitchell. She's a former Trump advisor and she's been influential in pushing all sorts of stolen election narratives since 2020. The memo is titled, quote, the threat of non-citizen voting in 2024 and it falls to implies that there are all these loopholes in the election system that undocumented immigrants are exploiting. Here's Mitchell talking about the broader conspiracy theory on a local conservative radio show in Illinois. I absolutely believe this is intentional and one of the reasons that the Biden administration is allowing all of these illegal supply to the country and they're taking them in the counties across the country so that they can get those people registered. They can vote them. Now, there is no evidence to support that theory and Mitchell did not respond to an email request for comment. But it's an idea we can expect to hear a lot this year as immigration is a major concern for Republican voters. So is this just xenophobia? I mean, what does the evidence actually show about non-citizens voting? Numerous studies can have confirmed it almost never happens. First of all, it is against the law for non-citizens to vote in federal elections and doing it would risk deportation. And in the few times that it has been shown that people have slipped through the cracks and registered or voted in federal elections, it's also been shown to have usually been by mistake. Okay, so I know you've also been looking into where and when these narratives started. What did you find? I mean, they've been around America politics for over a hundred years and I have to say I was kind of blown away as I started reporting this story at all the different times these same conspiracy theories have popped up, usually to justify policies that make voting harder. Even the very implementation of voter registration, researchers say it started in the late 1800s because people were specifically so scared about non-white, non-English speaking immigrants coming to the US and influencing politics. Experts who I talked to see echoes of that history in Trump's claims and in this memo by Mitchell, I talked to Guilda Daniels, who's an election law professor at the University of Baltimore. It's not only creates the hysteria, but this idea that only certain people should be allowed to participate in the process. In Mitchell's memo, for instance, she essentially says she wants Congress to make voter registration more difficult, but I should say there is essentially no chance that that goes anywhere at the federal level at this point. Okay, not nationally, but what about local state level? Yeah, so this is where it gets a little bit more complicated because a few liberal cities have passed laws in recent years allowing non-citizens to vote just in local races, which has led a number of Republican-led states to pass constitutional amendments banning those sorts of efforts. Georgia's Secretary of State Brad Raffinsberger has been one of the loudest voices raising concern on this issue, even though he's a Republican who has refuted a lot of other sort of conspiratorial narratives. He does say his confident non-citizens are not voting right now in Georgia, but when I asked him directly whether President Biden was shipping in undocumented immigrants to vote for him, he would not directly answer that, which just showed to me how deeply these ideas are rooted in conservative circles right now. And here's Miles Parks, thank you. Thank you. This week, the first age ship is due to arrive in Gaza from the island of Cyprus. It comes more than five months into the war between Israel and Hamas. Palestinian children in Gaza are starving to death, and the United Nations says most of the population there is at risk of famine. It's been really difficult to get food in because Israel's citing security concerns has blocked both shipments by land, so aid groups are now trying to use the sea. And here's Jane Raff joins us from Amman Jordan to talk about this. Hi, Jane. Hi, Lama. So what can you tell us about this ship headed to Gaza? Well, it's a boat called Open Arms after the Spanish aid organization that owns it. It set off yesterday, pulling a barge loaded with 200 tons of food, things like lentils, rice, canned meat. That's provided by a U.S. base state organization, World Central Kitchen and its partners. All of this painstakingly coordinated with Israel, which is scanned every package in Cyprus. The group is involved are keeping the exact destination on the Gaza coast and the timing of its arrival under wraps for security. But an Open Arms spokesperson told us because the vessel has to travel so slowly the trip could actually take several days. You know, Jane, the need is so great. Two million people in Gaza are risk of famine. What difference will this ship make? Well, by itself, not a huge amount. The food on it is really the equivalent of what could be carried by about ten trucks. The thing is, there are thousands of trucks backed up at the main border crossing with Gaza that have waited weeks for Israeli approval. This operation, though, is a test of the seerute and whether it can be scaled up to deliver a lot more aid. That would involve a jetty, which the aid groups involved say they're building now. I spoke with the founder of World Central Kitchen, who's in DC. It's Jose Andres, the celebrity chef. And his organization has been feeding people suffering through war and disaster for more than a decade. Let's listen to what he had to say. Nobody should never be attacked. Nobody should be killed by anybody that the civilian must be always be protected. And that obviously I report on what their East and Universal right. Andres says the biggest failure would be not trying to help feed people in Gaza. Okay. I've got non-governmental organizations trying to get in by sea. What are the U.S. and other countries doing to get aid in? Well, to become particularly urgent because of the scale of deaths and near starvation there. In fact, the European Union Foreign Policy Chief says starvation is being used as a weapon of war. So the U.S. military is planning to bring in a floating dock off the Gaza coast for more aid to be brought in by sea. We're not only are strikes of destroyed Gaza's ports, but that's certainly not easy, not least because the U.S. continues to supply Israel with its weapons for war and Gaza, making it a potential target. So critics say instead of building a dock, the U.S. should just pressure Israel to let in much more aid by trucks. But in the meantime, they love people in Gaza desperate for whatever they can get, however they can get it. And here's Jaina Raft. Thank you. Thank you. And that's up first for Wednesday, March 13th. I'm Layla Faldon. And I'm Ian Martinez. Today's episode of up first was edited by Kelsey Snell, Ben Swasey, Mark Catkov, Lisa Thompson, and Ben Adler. It was produced by Z. Outbuch, Ben Abrams, and Lindsay Tati. We get engineering support from Stacey Abbott and our technical director is at Coleman. Start your day here with us tomorrow. And the NPR app lets you keep public radio in your pocket. You can find a mix of local national and international news. Plus the best podcast from the NPR network. Download the NPR app in your app store today. On the Ted Radio Hour, when a city wants to be more walkable, they call Urban Planner Jeff Speck. Interestingly, I work in a lot of red cities. A grand rapids, Oklahoma City, where the local business leaders are saying, gee, how can we become more walkable so that we become more desirable? Ideas for a more walkable world. That's on the Ted Radio Hour from NPR. In a stressful election year, we know that a good show, movie, or book can feel like a sacred thing. At Pop Culture Happy Hour, we believe Pop Culture can be good for you. So we're here four days a week to bring you a book, movie, or show recommendation to put you in high spirits. For a dose of old fashioned Pop Culture therapy, listen to the Pop Culture Happy Hour podcast only from NPR. Hey there, this is Felix Contaneras, one of the co-hosts of All Latino. The podcast from NPR music where we discuss Latinx culture, music and heritage with the artists that created. And now to the All Latino podcast from NPR.