 ДИНАМИЧНАЯ МУЗЫКА Исреалл, says its battling Hamas in hospitals. Метical staff and civilians are being killed. Patients are getting sicker. Their wounds are getting infected. They're literally rotting. Today Israel's Defense Minister is in Washington. What should we expect? I'm Steve Inske, with Leyla Faddle, and this is up first from NPR News. Crowds gathered at the site of Friday's mass shooting in Moscow. Очень соболезну всем людям, кого люди попали. A student says he wouldn't wish this tragedy on anyone, an offshoot of the Islamic State claims responsibility for the attack. Russian authorities point instead to Ukraine. And all Trump could get a start date set for his hush money trial. He also faces a deadline to post a bond for his civil fraud case, which he has said he cannot do. Stay with us, we'll give you the news. You need to start your day. Barbро Страссан В. объехает Акûз will и кунду Он выставил этого Elmo.ols Крестин Боранский. О, thank you for your wonderful questions. Here are the questions. These icons, left to be asked. Listen every week to its venom in it from NPR. How can a story feel uniquely Latin American and universal? You'll have to listen to Rayaunbulante, NPR's award-winning Spanish language podcast to find out. For over a decade we've told stories of love and migration, use in politics, the environment, food and families from everywhere Spanish is spoken. Искауча ora, и podcast раунbulante, desde NPR. Israel's Defense Minister is in the US today at a moment of tension between the two allies. They don't agree about what should happen next in Israel's war in Gaza. The United States is pushing for a ceasefire and for Israel to allow more humanitarian aid to Palestinians who face famine. Now if it sounds repetitive, when we say that, that's because it is. The United States has been asking for the same things for weeks now. Israel says it is not done dismantling the Milton Group Hamas. And PR's Jennifer Lutton joins us now from Tel Aviv with the latest. Good morning, Jennifer. Hello. Hi. So what should we expect from the Israeli Defense Minister's visit here in DC? So a big focus is going to be the southern Gaza town of Rafa. You have more than a million displaced Palestinians crowded in there. The US says invading would be a huge mistake. And it specifically invited Israelis to Washington to talk about alternative options. But Israel says it cannot defeat Hamas without going into Rafa and it's going to attack whether the US approves or not. Also before boarding his flight, Israeli Defense Minister Yav Galant said he's going to bring up US military aid and helping Israel keep its quote, qualitative edge. This has become controversial. You now have some Democrats arguing that Israel's actions in Gaza may disqualify it from US military aid. Yeah. I mean, Senator Chris Coons, who's close to President Biden, was on the program last week and he said it would be, quote, almost impossible to attack Rafa in a way that was acceptable to the US. So the delegation will discuss that. But what's happening away from Rafa in other parts of Gaza? So for a week now, Israel says it has been battling hundreds of militants who have regrouped at the main hospital in Northern Gaza, outshifa. Again, Israel says Hamas is embedding itself in a civilian population there. I mean, it's also graded to other hospitals over the weekend. It claims there were weapons stockpiles. This has left thousands of patients, doctors, civilians, sheltering in these hospitals caught in this fighting. Gaza's health ministry says some have died from fire, smoke, or shelling. And it's just adding to an incredibly dire humanitarian crisis. Amber Alyan is an American physician with doctors without borders. She and others say there's no longer supplies to treat the many wounded. Here's what she told our colleague, Michelle Kellerman. The patients who have survived thus far are increasingly getting sicker. They're getting more infections. Their wounds are getting infected. They're literally rotting. The fact that they don't have access to food for the patients makes it even harder for their wounds to heal. I mean, what she describes on top of the widespread hunger, we're seeing images of people eating grass to stave off that hunger. And so many international groups and governments are pushing Israel to allow more humanitarian aid, especially food in Gaza. Any progress there? You know, mostly we've seen a lot of frustration and trading blame. Over the weekend, the Secretary General of the United Nations actually went to the border with Gaza to highlight this crisis. Antonio Guterres accused Israel of holding up aid trucks. He said Palestinians are stuck in a non-stop nightmare and that the extreme hunger is just shocking. Now, on Sunday, Israel did say 103 aid trucks had entered Gaza. But keep in mind, before this whole crisis, there were 500 aid trucks a day going in. And so it's a massive drop when it's needed most. And the latest you and Nebris show it keeps going down. Less food aid got in in February than did in January. Now, what's happening with any possible deal in these discussions that we're going on in Kutsa? Do we know where they stand? Just in brief, you know, the focus is freeing up. Some of the 130 Israeli-Hasaj is still in Gaza, but a hang up is whether Hamas can get a permanent ceasefire. Israel, of course, says it can't do that. It's still intense to battle Hamas in Rafa. And Pairs, Jennifer Lutten, in Tel Aviv. Thank you, Jennifer. Thank you. For suspected shooters in Friday's attack on a Russian concert hall in Moscow have been charged with terrorism. The death toll from this attack has been going up all through the weekend. An authorities say it killed nearly 140 people injuring many more. A part of the Islamic State, known as ISIS-K, claimed responsibility. Russian authorities have ignored that, instead, suggesting the involvement of Ukraine. Joining us with the latest is NPR's Charles mains in Moscow, high Charles. Morning. So, Charles, you were out at the site of the tragedy last night. Tell me what you saw. Yeah, you know, this was the second time I was out there over the weekend. There was a small memorial I saw on Saturday, and it had grown into this massive display of flowers and tributes by Sunday, with even Orthodox priests on hand to give a church liturgy. And among Russians, I met who came to pay the respects. It was a university student named Nicholas, who declined to give his last name and saying he was still in shock over events. I came to express condolences to those who lost loved ones and family on the attack he tells me, adding he wouldn't wish this tragedy on anyone. And so you were at this site, but this must have shaken people across Russia well beyond the capital and this concert hall, right? Yeah, you know, we've seen people donating blood across the country, impromptu memorials to the victims in other towns and cities. But it also seems like the government is intent on channeling this grief. Over the weekend, an image of a candle in the phrase, we mourn, popped up on billboards across the country, pro-cremlin pop stars, who recorded tributes and solidarity. And even back at the scene last night, at the concert hall, clearly this was an organized event. You know, pro-cremlin youth groups were marching in line to bring flowers. There was a sound system, even a projected light show on the side of the concert hall building that showed whitebirds flying skyward to honor the victims. And all this was filmed by camera drones from above. And so all of this has been circulating on social media and, of course, date TV. Meanwhile, four suspects have now been charged in court with acts of terrorism. What's happening there? Yeah, that's right. These are the alleged shooters detained on Saturday, all citizens of the former Soviet Republic of Tajikistan. In court, all four pleaded guilty, but it must be said, all showed signs of torture and duress. One of the accused was brought in a wheelchair, not even conscious. Another showed up with a bandage on his ear after his interrogator cut off a portion of it with a knife. We know because the authorities released a video. Meanwhile, others had swollen faces with bruises and cuts. So taking all of that into account, there certainly will be those who questioned the confessions they gave. So with questions around this trial, what do we expect going forward? Well, the trial is likely to start in late May. These men faced life in prison if convicted. Russia currently does not have the death penalty, although that's increasingly a matter of debate here. Meanwhile, there's the larger question of who ordered the attack. The crisis claimed responsibility, and the U.S. has come to that conclusion as well. But President Vladimir Putin is only comments on the attack so far insisted these attackers were trying to escape to Ukraine. And even though Kiev denies any involvement vehemently, we're all bracing to see what happens next, not only in the courtroom or the court of public opinion, but most of all on the battlefields of Ukraine. And P.R.'s Charles Mainz in Moscow, thank you, Charles. Thank you. 2 of Donald Trump's legal battles collide today. One criminal, one civil, both in New York City. Okay, a judge holds a hearing in the criminal hush money case, which involves Trump's longtime fixer, Michael Cohen, and adult film star, Starmie Daniels. That hearing could lead to a start date for the trial. Today is also the deadline for Trump to pay almost half a billion dollars in his civil fraud trial. If he does not do that, the New York Attorney General could start the process of seizing his properties. And P.R.'s Andrea Bernstein joins us now to sort out everything Trump faces today. Good morning, Andrea. Good morning. So let's start with the criminal case. What is Donald Trump facing here? So this was the first case to be indicted of the four. And it's back to the 2016 campaign in late October of that year, Michael Cohen, who was then the personal attorney for Donald Trump, got wind that Starmie Daniels was planning to go public with news and alleged affair with Donald Trump. This was pretty soon after the excess Hollywood tape was released, where Trump talked about grabbing women by the genitals because one year a star, they let you do it. Cohen has said he didn't think the campaign could withstand another blow of this kind. So he set up a limited liability corporation to pay Daniels to keep quiet. And then Donald Trump allegedly agreed to a scheme to pay Cohen back by calling the reimbursements a legal retainer, which they were not. That's a felony. If the DA can prove that Trump falsified the records to cover up another crime, that is the crime of making an illegal payment to benefit his campaign, in this case, the hush money payments. And this trial was supposed to start today, but it's already been pushed back. Remind us what happened. Yes, so there was a hearing last month where judge one, Mershon, was firm that he wanted to start today. But then DA Alvin Bragg made public that there had been a last minute production of over 100,000 documents from the federal prosecutors who had prosecuted Michael Cohen. Trump is calling this malfeasance, but Bragg says there's not much new here. Mershon is expected to let us know today if he'll keep his current trial date, April 15th. If that is the case, Trump will be in court most days for the following two months, tried on 34 felony counts, which could bring jail time. So there's a lot to keep straight here. Trump also faces the deadline to post a bond for the penalty in his civil fraud case, too, for engaging in fraudulent business practices, right? It's kind of mind-boggling that both of these things are happening today, but it's a coincidence. Has Trump been able to come up with the money? So Trump has appealed the judgment in the civil fraud case, but he still has to put the money aside. Last week he argued to an appeals court that to cover the bond, to get a bond was a practical immossibility, because he doesn't have the cash to guarantee it right now. Here is his son, Eric Trump, speaking on Fox News yesterday. They're trying to pull my father out of business. They're trying to take all his resources that you'd otherwise put into his own campaign for presidency. Part of the reason, Donald Trump. He's having trouble getting a bond is because he already had to come up with a hundred million dollars in liquid assets to cover his judgment in a separate civil case. The EG and Carol defamation suit, he's appealed that one, too. The appeals court in the fraud case hasn't acted yet, and if it does nothing, there is nothing to prevent. The Attorney General, Leticia James, from starting to seize Trump's properties this week, which she said she'll do. And here's Andrea Bernstein. Good luck covering all this today. Thank you so much. Thank you, Laila. And that's it for Monday, March 25. I'm Laila Falded. And I'm Steve Innskipe. Today's up first was edited by Mark Katkoff. Nick Spicer, Krishnadev Kalemer, Ben Adler, and Alice Wolfley. It was produced by Ziyad Butch, Ben Abrams, and Milton Guevara. We get engineering support from Phil Ed Forrest, and our technical director is Carly Strange. And your next lesson is consider this from NPR. Members of the LGBTQ community are routinely the targets of harassment and violence. To recent cases illustrate how a patchwork of differing laws around the rights of trans and queer people can lead to very different outcomes. Listen to consider this. Spend time in any American city, and you'll likely encounter someone with untreated psychosis. Lost Patients is a new podcast examining our maze-like system for treating severe mental illness, which eluses patients to an endless loop between the streets, jail, and hospitals. Does it have to be this way? For the history, the reality, and hopefully some solutions? Listen to lost patients from KUOW and the Seattle Times, part of the NPR network. Here and now, it can be a mantra that you need one. And who doesn't these days? We're a show that gives you fresh perspectives on the biggest stories of the day, with real people, all in a half hour. Get your world news all in one place. Just remember the mantra here and now, anytime, a podcast from NPR and WBUR. Want to hear this podcast without sponsor breaks? Amazon Prime members can listen to up-first sponsor free through Amazon Music. Or you can also support NPR's vital journalism and get up-first-plus at plus.npr.org. That's plus.npr.org.