 I'm Janice Dean. I'm Jason Chafetz. I'm Harris Faulkner. And this is the Fox News rundown. Thursday, March 14th, 2024. I'm Dave Anthony. It was two years ago today. Benjamin Hall was nearly killed in an attack while reporting on the war in Ukraine. One of the important parts of my recovery has been the message that journalism can never be silenced. You can attack us. You can try and stop us, but we won't stop. The words won't stop. I'm Jessica Rosenthal. Does the UK's new gender care policy for minors signal a growing shift in how we medically treat trans children? And will US medical agencies reconsider their policies? I think we're underutilizing therapy in this and overutilizing political ideology. And I'm Tammy Bruce. I've got the final word on the Fox News rundown. The US has found a way to give Ukraine more military aid to fend off Russia's invasion. How? President Biden says... Using cost savings from previously approved Pentagon contracts. The package includes munitions and rounds to help Ukraine hold the line against Russia's brutal attacks. Which sounds good, but it's a band-aid on a deeper wound. We need to fix this deeper wound. That's former heavyweight boxing champion Vladimir Klitschko, who's in Washington and tells Fox. We are struggling with lack of ammunition, with struggling, with lack of support, even though we're getting some, but how much is enough? Klitschko is lobbying Congress for a lot more help in that battle against Russia, urging lawmakers to approve $60 billion worth of more military aid that's stalled in the house. Today, Mark's two years since Fox News suffered casualties of war, while Benjamin Hall was reporting from Ukraine, a Russian attack hit the vehicle he was in, badly injuring him, and killing photojournalist Pierre Shachewski and producer Sasha Kuchnova. Every year, on the day itself, March 14th, brings back a whole lot of different emotions. Benjamin Hall is back at work, a Fox News senior correspondent now, and a paperback version of his number one best-selling book is out this week, saved a war reporter's mission to make it home. First of all, I remember Pierre and Sasha who died that day, that is at the top of the list, a cameraman, a producer out there, very close to me. You were all in the same vehicle. And that's got to be the number one priority about that day, is remembering those who can't come back. The other side is, I suppose, an immense sense of pride. We've come through it so well that I've come through it so well, and to be sitting here opposite you is a remarkable thing, and I put that down to community, to the people who help me get through it, to having goals. I'm honored to be sitting across from you. You've gone through so much to get back to here, to where you are. That day, I want you to talk a little bit about that moment, and how quickly, after you've been attacked, you're badly wounded, you thought I'm going to be sitting here doing this again. Very, very quickly. In fact, even while I was lying there, I took pictures of my leg that are blown off, and I was there for about 40 minutes, and I was kind of in an out of consciousness, but it's what we do. We're journalists, and I think it's a safe place for me to go. I just look around, figure out what's going on. I was already in a sense covering and reporting what was happening at the time, and then within a couple days when I was finally evacuated, again, I was writing things down, I was taking voice notes. It isn't a sense quite peaceful for me to do that. I enjoy doing it. It keeps my mind focused, and that was important to do. I knew from the beginning that I was going to come back to journalists, and that I wanted to tell not only with a story about what happened to me, but go back to telling stories around the world and the news. I also think I was back in Ukraine in November, and one of the important parts of my recovery has been the message that journalism can never be silenced. You can attack us. You can try and stop us, but we won't stop. The words won't stop. I always wanted to do it. There were times I didn't think I could. I imagine that. The recovery was very hard. How many surgeries have you had? Around 35 now, and I've got a couple more coming up soon as well. They don't stop. You know, you filter it in around operations. If I have a time I can work, I work. And then if I have to take a bit of time off, I take time off. But that's just the schedule of my life at the moment, and that's fine. Tell us about peer and Sasha. We lost them. And you say that you don't want to forget them. Tell us about what they were like. Pierre loved journalism more than anything. He loved people. He loved traveling. He loved showing people what was going on around the world. We worked together since 2015, and we had covered countless conflicts together. We had slept in the trenches together. We'd been in caves together. We fought alongside troops against everyone from ISIS to the Taliban. And everywhere we went, Pierre taught me things. He taught me how to really speak to people, how to get the true stories out of people. And when I started at Fox, he was the cameraman that I went out with first. OK. He taught me. He really helped me develop as a journalist. And I know that he would want us to continue reporting. He wouldn't want us being sad and wallowing. He would want us out. He would want us to keep doing this. So he's someone who brought life to everyone. Wherever you went, he would go up to the first checkpoint, and he would be talking to soldiers, and they would be laughing in a minute. He sounds like a very brave guy. He would open doors. He was like my guy, he'd hook up his satellites with not exaggerating. He'd find a wire or piece of a car and he'd hook it together, and he'd get his life anywhere. Amazing. And Sasha, she was from... She was in Ukraine. Sasha was Ukrainian. She was our local producer, and she was our fixer at the time, and she made a lot of things happen. And she was doing it because she wanted to help her country, however she could. She wanted the world to know what was happening, and she managed to take us to incredible places and help Fox really tell the news. So it was tragic what happened that day. And we just have to think about them, and hopefully everything we do, we can do in their names and make sure their memories are never forgotten. So now, as the war continues, and you said you'd been back to Ukraine, and I know you sat down with President Zelensky, he's at a tough spot right now. American military aid remains stalled. Now, the U.S. is sending $300 million more in weapons and ammo that they found through cost savings, I guess, depending on a role. But President Biden says that's only a few more weeks. Russia has now a spring and summer. Is there a lot of worry that they're going to make big gains from here forward? Big worry, and Ukraine, big worry. They are having to ration the artillery shells they have. And when they are being attacked along some of those front lines, sometimes they can't really hold Russia back in some places, because they do not have the weapons they need. You know, you are seeing a struggle sometimes for Ukrainians to get enough soldiers as well, so they're struggling on that front as well. Across the board, Ukraine is struggling to hold on to the lines it has, and Russia knows it, and they are pushing now in a way they haven't before. They understand that Western support is dripping away from the U.S. They counted on this, didn't they? They counted on it 100%. Yes. So right now, it's a difficult time for Ukraine, and everyone's looking ahead to November to see what happens in the elections here. His forces have been removed. They had to leave some of the areas and the east in this war. The counteroffensive that Ukraine attempted, has that been a complete failure? Yes, it has. They just didn't quite anticipate the level to which the Russians had built their defenses. The amount of mines they laid, three different levels along the way. And eventually, the U.S. did give cluster bombs. You know, they didn't want to, but they did to clear the minefields, but that came quite late. So no, they were not able to move at all, and it was a real hope, and I think that might be whether Western support, U.S. support started to shift. There's talk of sitting down at the table. Russian President Putin referenced that. The other day, Pope Francis controversially said that maybe it's time for Ukraine to show the courage to end the war. But if that happens, Ukraine has to acknowledge the losses and give up its territory. It's really interesting. You know, Russia invaded in 2014, and they came to the Minsk agreement whereby there was a cease-fire of sorts. But all Russia does is it rebuild its armies, and then it attacks again. I understand the Ukrainian position saying, yeah, even if we did negotiate, we know full well that Russia will rebuild its army, and then they attack us one more time. So what is the benefit of negotiating now? At the same time, there's very little likelihood that Russia will be pushed out at all. So it's a very difficult scenario. Even inside domestically, inside Ukraine, there are growing calls for negotiation to happen. But Zelensky, 100% single-handedly, says we will not do that. What about NATO? It's expanded now, Sweden and Finland. There have been these talks, Russia claims, that there have been some NATO countries that have actually put some of their soldiers in. The French leader suggested that maybe some NATO allies will have to put troops in. Is that ever going to happen? You're president Macron has been quite interesting in France. He's really become more belly-coast, aggressive character, and I think it's partly for a European perspective. I don't think there's any... Is he serious? No, I don't think there's any chance that's actually going to happen, to be honest. NATO is an interesting one at the moment. Putin just said he was moving more troops to the Finnish border. He's been flying more planes over Sweden, bombers over Sweden recently. So there's attention there. And I suppose it all lays into the long-term question. Is Putin's idea just to capture more of Ukraine, or does he have ideas to move into Europe and NATO and attack some of these other states? And that's the big unknown. But many people are saying we should prepare in case he does. We can't just talk about it. We should prepare for the moment he may do that. He's threatened again that he's ready to find a nuclear war. If it comes to that, is that just something he knows when he waves that? It frightens people? No, I don't think so. You think he's serious? I think he's serious. Not with... And you've got to split the two kinds of nuclear weapons. It's not like a Hiroshima style bomb. You can use a tactical nuclear weapon, which is smaller. A smaller one, which is devastating, but comes close to some of the large, normal bombs that are used. And so I could see a place where, if it was really on the back foot, if things weren't going well, perhaps you could use a small tactical nuclear. It's a clear sign with that actually going into the large scale. A nuke. Now a lot would have to happen for him to do that. But I do think that Putin is a rat in a corner. And if you really corner him at some point, you don't know. So I don't think it should be dismissed. I want to bring up your book again. Saved a war reporter's mission to make it home. It's in paper back now. For someone who reads it, what will they learn? What's your message to people who read the book? Well, more than anything, it's about... You know, you can get knocked down, be knocked down, but you can find a way to stand up. And the way to do that is through community, being close to people. You know, so many people came to help me. They evacuated me, military medicine, peace me together. And I just felt like such a large part of a community. Sometimes I worry we are forgetting. It must be the backbone of our society is coming together to get through difficult things. We can get through anything. Set yourself goals, and that's how you do it. And I talk about how I got through the hardest parts, the really painful parts, the difficult moments. And it's led to your podcast, searching for heroes with Benjamin Hall. What's the next episode? This week I'm speaking to Jen Griffin, who organized my evacuation from Ukraine. She got together. That's right, she did. Incredible group of people. That was not easy to do. No, save our lives. The US military is not even there. Exactly. So these guys came in of veterans, among them, the Medal of Honor winner, a bronze stars winner. These are a lot of the guys who are formerly in the US military, Green Berets, intelligence, who were out there saving people. They were saving Americans. And so I speak to Jen Griffin in this episode. She talks not only about that, but also about her own career, current conflicts and the military and community, and how you get through difficult times yourself. And all my guests in the podcast have gone through something really difficult. And they've all come out the other side. They've all found different ways to do so. So it's a reminder to people, the podcasts, that you can go through difficult things, but you can always get through them. And that heroes, you know, some of the people I speak to, they don't come from. They're not famous, you don't know them. Remind you that heroes are everywhere. They really are. They're in every community you go to. Well, I think some people would consider you a hero for what you've been able to accomplish and the message that you continue to say. And we are really delighted. And I'm honored to be here with you, Benjamin. Fox News Senior Correspondent here in New York, but normally based out of London, the Searching for Heroes podcast. You can catch of course here on our Fox News podcast network. Benjamin, great to talk to you. I would have pleasure to. Thanks for having me on. Thank you. Fox News Radio on demand on the Fox News app. Download the app and just click listen. When you swipe left, you can listen to your favorite Fox News talk shows live. Swipe right for the latest Fox News radio newscasts on demand. Fox News Radio on the Fox News app. Download it today. Coming up. Britain's National Health System now says new policy. No puberty blockers for children. This after a review by a doctor in 2022, found gaps in the evidence around the drugs. Dr. Hillary Cass said at the time they should reconsider how they treat gender dysphoria in minors. Now NHS says teens with gender dysphoria will be referred to psychologists and social workers over the course of several months. This is huge because we're seeing as all these syruping countries that pioneer this, they're reversing course and stopping these treatments in children. Of course right now the US is far behind, but they are going to follow. Chloe Cole of Missouri underwent a transition from female to male, including having a mastectomy at 15 years old. She has since detransitioned. She told Fox's America reports, I'm still experiencing ill effects from to this day. And the blockers ultimately were the gateway drug to the rest of my treatment. As the policy shift occurs, NHS notes just 100 young people are receiving puberty blockers from them in the UK. However, the gender identity service there saw an increase in referrals from about 250 a year to over 5,000 between 2021 and 2022. In the United States in 2022, the UCLA Williams Institute noted 1.6 million Americans now identifies transgender. 300,000 of whom are between 13 and 17 years of age. Today, 23 states have policies restricting transgender-related care for minors. During debate in Missouri about a ban on puberty blockers and hormones earlier this year, 17-year-old Andrew Rodriguez-Domsgard told state lawmakers, Please channel your energy and your power and your concern into different more pressing matters other than what I do with my body to make me happy. As more young people have declared they are trans, major medical bodies have expressed support for gender-affirming care, including the American Academy of Pediatrics, the Endocrine Society, and the American Medical Association. In 2022, the same year the NHS was advised to reconsider its policy, the National Healthcare Body in Sweden, determined the risks of puberty-inhibiting treatment for those under 18 outweigh the possible benefits. I think this fits on top of what's already been happening. In Western Europe and in the UK, I think the UK has been taking a very careful look at this. Dr. Mark Siegel is a Fox News contributor and professor at NYU's Langone Medical Center. And what's tragic here is that with all of the information that came out previous, even prior to the pandemic, about the impact of long-term impact of puberty blockers, I think it's been purely political in the United States. 22 states have banned it, but the rest of the country hasn't. And I think that what they're doing in the UK is taking a much more careful look at things. If you think about the National Health Service, which I'm not entirely a great fan of, because they rash and care, but they don't want to rash and care to something that's going to cause more problems than it solves. And that's the problem with puberty blockers. Is there something called gender dysphoria? Yes, definitely. Is that overly politicized? Yes. Do people outgrow it? Yes. Do you want to give somebody a puberty blocker, which blocks the production of testosterone or estrogen right at the time when it usually explodes and then puts you down a pathway where you later regret having made those choices? No, you don't want to do that. And puberty blockers also cause headaches. They cause confusion. They can cause depression and anxiety. They're bad for your bones and they can cause fertility problems later on, especially when they're put together with testosterone or estrogen. I think those are things that you could consider when you're an adult. But what's the scenario where a child or a teen makes that decision in conjunction with who? An overbearing parent? Or no parent at all, but the state? It's not a, it's a very problematic situation for a young person and did they get proper mental health support? Before, that's the yellow elephant in the room. It looks like the American Academy of Pediatrics voted again last August to confirm their 2018 support for gender, affirming care for minors, which means puberty blockers and hormones. But they said at the same time they are reviewing medical research on treatments. What should they be considering and what are they considering, do you think? And maybe are they signaling that they're open to a shift? I certainly hope so. They're basing their earlier decisions on the idea that a couple of studies have shown that gender reassignment treatments, that's kind of a, that's a term for many things, right? That also includes surgery, mastectomies, which are not easily reversible. I mean, castrration, that's, these are very problematic things. And that's put together with puberty blockers. And I think they're looking at a few studies that show maybe long term or moderate term, not long term, moderate term, that there's an improvement in anxiety or depression. But we have just as many studies showing the opposite, that these treatments cause an increase in anxiety and depression. Lupron, which is the main puberty blocker we use is a treatment for prostate cancer. It causes a lot of discomfort in people that take it. But if you have prostate cancer, you may have no choice. Here you have a choice. And the choice is to wait. And I don't think that they're basing it on convincing evidence. I think the UK is much more on the side of what the prevailing evidence is, which is there's a lot of side effects of these drugs. You know, that that may disturb the transition of a teen period as they grow older. And then we don't know all the long term problems with taking them. We don't know all of them. But I think bone loss and bone density is enough and fertility concerns. Yeah, it is a part of this that interest in transgender affirming care by minors has skyrocketed as of late. And so there is somewhat limited amount of information about the effects of transition care on a growing body. Well, but you know, you bring up a point that from a physician, I look at a little differently. Why? Why does the number of people requesting this go from 250 to 5000 in the UK? Why? Is it biologic? How could it be biologic? I mean, it can't be biologic. It's got to be sociologic. So what's the society doing to promote these choices of people not accepting the gender assignment that God gave them essentially? Again, I don't want people to be uncomfortable. I don't want people to be severely depressed or suicidal. I believe gender this for you exists. But I think it's been overlaid with a tremendous amount of political posturing, which is extremely dangerous and detrimental. Let's stop for a second and remind people. England's national health system says what they're banning for kids. And you've already referenced this is something that it stops puberty. And in the policy they write puberty blockers will not be available to children with gender dysphoria. There is not enough evidence of safety and clinical effectiveness. If there isn't enough evidence now, then what's been going on this whole time? Is that essentially an admission that we dove into something without evidence and you know evidence of safety and clinical effectiveness? Well, that's what that's what happens a lot isn't it that that decisions are made without the proper evidence to back them up. And I think politics plays too large a role in terms of medical decisions. I think there's a preponderance of evidence to the contrary that was there that was overlooked that these drugs of side effects. I just said we've been using them for prostate cancer. It's not some new kid on the block that we don't know about. These drugs have been around a long time and we know they have serious side effects. And we're giving them to people that are in very impressionable years. And you know, I mean, I'm usually for certain treatments for children and teens like vaccines, for example, but this is a totally different thing. Adolescents are informative stages. They're changing their minds about things all the time. I think to push them down or allow them to go down in an irretrutable course where an intervention is put in place that has serious side effects is a mistake. Now in the UK, they're not actually banning it. They're saying they're not going to condone it or allow it or authorize it or enable it. That's a statement I believe that's consistent with medicine and public health. Of course, parents or children can go and get it somewhere else. Yeah, privately. privately. Yeah. But that's I think we're getting a statement with a government here being in line with what the science shows. And just to clarify, this policy says from the age of 16, teenagers who've been on hormone blockers for at least 12 months, maybe given cross-sex hormones known as gender-affirming hormones. It sounds like they're saying the clock will start at 16 in the UK, at least from from NHS standpoint. Right. That's exactly right. Right. We could just say a Jessica. But I think that the issue here is what about a 12 or a 13 year old? I mean, if you're asking me if I think a 15 or a 16 year old, that's more that's not really the way I would practice. But you know, that's at least moving the ball to an older age. I mean, we're talking about 12 year olds and 13 year olds in the United States getting mastectomy is completely ridiculous in my opinion that should not be allowed. Okay. Briefly back to your earlier point about mental health, you know, proponents of gender-affirming care for minors consistently point to studies that they say show higher depression rates, higher rates of suicidal thoughts for those who are transgender. But once they start the puberty blockers or the hormones, those rates of depression and suicidal thoughts decrease significantly if these studies are correct, if they are correct, what is the policy answer then? If you when you look at those numbers? Well, I know about those studies and I think they're legitimate, but the question is why? Why is depression decreasing? Because of the political overlay, because of a placebo effect, because you feel now that your behavior is self-justifying. I also told you that the puberty blockers themselves have been shown to increase anxiety and depression on their own, just medical side effects of the drugs. So this is something that physicians take into account when they do something called the risk-benefit analysis. But a risk-benefit analysis for an adult is different than one for a child or for a teen. And so I'm concerned about the prematurity here of this. They haven't done a study that would be, what if I wait till 18? That'd be an interesting study, right? What would be the rate of, you don't want anyone committing suicide under any circumstances, believe me. But if you have a teen that's depressed at 13, does that mean you have to put them down this path or do you try to get them to 18 and then make a decision? How do you, Dr. How do you get them to 18? You get them before a therapist, you get them before somebody who can talk this out with them? Absolutely. I think we're underutilizing therapy in this and overutilizing political ideology. Am I missing anything in this debate? Is there anything you want to add about this? Do you, do you have you talked to people as a doctor? I mean, you see patients. Have you talked to people about this in your, in your office? This is a deeply troubling topic. I think it should be handled medically and not politically. One more thing I didn't emphasize is how about the study that answers this question? Does the use of puberty blockers lead to premature surgeries and the gender reassignment surgeries? The answer is they're connected. That's also disturbing. I think that our societies, and we saw this in the pandemic, are standing on the podium a little bit too much. I think when you look to Western Europe and the UK now, I think our societies might be advised to say, you know, we're taking that seriously. Maybe we need to take a step back here. Maybe we're advising something and we're not in the room with the patient and the doctor and the parent, if there is a parent, you know, maybe we're being a little too intrusive. I don't like medicine by policy. I don't like medicine by guidelines. I like medicine to be something decentralized between a physician, a parent, and a child, and everything gets taken into account. Dr. Marceebel, thanks so much for joining. Thank you for having me. . Late the American who coined the popular term March madness. Henry Van R's Dale Porter was born in Manino, Illinois on October 2nd, 1891, just two months before the advent of basketball. Porter spent his life working in high school athletics and being an advocate for the All-American sport born beside him. Porter crafted the first high school rulebook back in 1936, which was later adapted by the National Basketball Rules Committee. He also helped sports manufacturers develop the first leather basketball, replacing the hard-to-drift-laced balls, which high schools across the country soon adopted. In 1939, he wrote his famous and influential essay, Headlined March Madness, where he detailed the allure of basketball and how it brought joy to Americans during the great depression. He wrote, quote, Eagles flying heroes die beneath some foreign arch, let their sons thread where hate is dead in a happy madness of March. March madness became the new slogan across America, especially in Porter's small town in Illinois, where high school basketball was all the rave. The term was used to advertise high school basketball tournaments in Chicago during the 1960s and gained national coverage when it was uttered during the NCAA tournament by sports broadcaster Brent Musburger. The March madness creator passed away on October 27th, 1975 at the age of 84. Porter was inducted into the nice moth memorial hall of fame as the lone member of the 1960s class for his contributions to basketball's lasting legacy. Learn more about HV Porter's incredible life in Fox News Digital's Meet the American Who series. Follow up a chair and join me, Rachel Campbell's, Duffy and me former US congressman Sean Duffy as we share our perspective on the discussions happening at kitchen tables across America. Download from the kitchen table, the Duffy's at Fox News Podcasts.com or wherever you download podcasts. Subscribe to this podcast at Fox News Podcasts.com. When New York Governor Kathy Hocal announced that she would be deploying a thousand members of the National Guard and State Police to perform bad checks throughout the New York City subway system, people were perplexed. The theory goes if the Democrats really wanted to make people safer, they would arrest people who commit crimes and put them in jail and not for five minutes. What a concept. But no, the Democrats aren't serious about stopping crime, but they are experts at gaslighting and distractions. Immediately critics saw this for what it is. Security theater during an election year. Hocal herself confirmed this during an interview on MSNBC saying, I'm going to demonstrate that Democrats fight crime as well. This narrative that Republicans have said and hijacked the story that were soft on crime that we defund the police. No. Talk about the compulsion to confess. There she is on national television. Crying about how this is a partisan demonstration to restore belief in a false Democrat narrative that everything is just fine. And they haven't decimated police departments in blue cities, especially New York. But if that's the case, why is she deploying armed troops into the subway? The situation itself is absurd. A state playacting that they're tough on crime by sending the National Guard into the transportation system with no real power to do anything at all. People can decline to have their bad search. And if so, Hocal says that they can't ride the subway. Really? And exactly how will that be enforced? Does she mean for the presence of the National Guard to simply be a deterrent? Possibly. But that's a dangerous game for a city where a mob of illegal aliens felt free to attack New York City police officers in Times Square. There are more rational things the state and city could do like have the transit cups actually ride on the trains, ticket and arrest bad people who do bad things, or end the no bail rules that allow an air go encourage criminals to keep on victimizing people and society itself. But adding more transit cops would cost money. Money needed for a super important new NYPD team with which the city cannot live without. The new New York police department dance squad. With priorities like this, people can stop wondering why everything is in such disarray. It's funny what an election year does to the left when poll numbers offer up the stark reality that Americans are sick and tired of the left's putrid scheme to pitice against each other while drowning us in a sea of chronic fear. There is something quite ghoulish about having facilitated a collapse of law and order through direct policy decisions, kneecapping law enforcement, while essentially ending criminal incarceration and punishment only to declare that you are going to save the city and save the day by sending in the military as window dressing. While it seems like a general schizophrenic episode displayed by politicians in the media, the fact is there is a method to this madness. It reveals the fact that they understand what they've done. They know it has made our lives worse, that Americans don't like it, and they need to pretend that they're doing something about it. But it also provides a glimpse into the decayed mentality that remains committed to a public policy of creating and maintaining fear and social chaos simply for the sake of it. And for the power they imagine it will guarantee them. Normally, November is just a lovely fall month. But for our country, we now recognize November 2024 provides a unique opportunity for the decent to say enough is enough. I'm Tammy Bruce, a contributor at Fox News, and this column originally appeared at amac.us. AMAC.US. You've been listening to the Fox News rundown, and now stay up to date by subscribing to this podcast at FoxNewsPodcasts.com. Listen, add free on Fox News Podcasts plus on Apple Podcasts, and Prime Members can listen to the show add free on Amazon Music, and for up to the minute news, go to FoxNews.com. The Cudlow Podcast will be available on the go after the show every weekday at FoxBusinessPodcasts.com, or wherever you download your favorite podcasts.