 This episode is brought to you by Kia's first three-roll, all-electric SUV, the Kia EV9, with available all-wheel drive and seating for up to seven adults, with zero to 60 speed that thrills you one minute and available lounge seats that unwind you the next. Visit Kia.com slash EV9 to learn more. Ask your Kia dealer for availability. No system, no matter how advanced, can compensate for all driver error and or driving conditions, always drive safely. I'm Greg Jarrett. I'm Sandra Smith. I'm Charles Payne and this is The Fox News rundown. Wednesday, March 20th, 2024. I'm Jessica Rosenthal. The focus has been on the felonies the former president has charged with, but now his focus is on finding cash. As New York's top prosecutor, threatens to go after Trump's assets in a civil case. The analogy is a judge ordering the taking of your home, but in order to appeal the judgment, you have to sell the home. I'm Dave Anthony. TikTok users and influencers keep pushing back on Congress's potential TikTok ban over the social media apps links to China. The same guys that are up there spouting off that it's all about national security also allowed the weather balloons to fly all over the United States without anything. They allow our open borders on the southern border of people to just flood in by the thousands down there with no checks and balances there. And I'm Janice Dean. I've got the final word on The Fox News rundown. After voting in Palm Beach, Florida Tuesday with Melania by his side, former president Trump addressed the more than $450 million civil penalty against him that increases every day, by the way. As his attorneys say they can't post bond on that amount. Manhattan judge Arthur Engoron levelled that hefty fine after finding the former president overvalued his properties in an effort to get better loans and insurance policies. Billions of dollars in value, millions of dollars in properties, but they'd like to take the cash away so I can't use it on the campaign. And this is just a corrupt group of people. It's election interference and we'll see how the courts rule on it. In order for the former president to appeal the fine, he has to first post bond basically ensuring that he has the cash on hand should he lose the appeal. His attorneys say 30 shurdy companies won't post more than $100 million as bond. And they will not accept his real estate as collateral. Fox's Eric Sean explains. Trump's attorneys wrote in the court filing this quote, obtaining such cash the way fire sale of real estate holdings would inevitably result in massive irrecoverable losses. Textbook error, prepable injury. Well, if Mr. Trump doesn't meet the deadline on Monday, attorney general, attisha james, who brought the case, could potentially freeze his bank accounts and then even go after some of his real estate properties like the iconic Trump tower to satisfy the judgment. Now attorney general, attisha james campaigned on prosecuting Trump for something. Here she was at the Cooper Union School in July of 2018. Yes, we need to focus on Donald Trump and his abuses. We need to follow his money. We need to find out where he's laundered money. We need to find out whether or not he's engaged in conspiracy. As the former president looks to appeal this fine, some legal analysts say the incredibly high penalty amount may be a due process violation. But he hasn't on Monday or james says she may begin trying to take his assets. What is different here is the astronomical size of the penalty imposed by the New York court. George Washington University law professor and Fox News contributor, Jonathan Turley. Many of us believe that the almost half a billion dollars in penalty is excessive and unconnected to any objective basis of losses or victims. So it creates a rather perverse incentive for a court that you can just pick almost randomly some massive number and make it very difficult for anyone to review your decision. I mean, this the analogy is a judge ordering the taking of your home, but in order to appeal the judgment, you have to sell the home. It gets to the point where you're interfering with the ability of someone to get a palette review. This is a case that is screaming out for palette review. Many of us cannot imagine how this level of penalty could ever be upheld. What the bond issue does is it front loads the main issue in the case. There's general acceptance that a company or an individual can be fined for this type of allegation. There is evidence that Donald Trump overvalued or undervalued assets. The concern many of us have is that that is a ubiquitous practice in New York real estate. I mean, it is I've talked to business people in New York who are dumbfounded by this lawsuit because it is very common for companies to overvalue their assets. That's why these estimates came as with the Trump estimate with a warning that you shouldn't rely on this and do your own research. The New York Attorney General has said, if you can't pay this, I'm going after your real estate assets. I mean, there's this image, I think, for many of us that Trump loses Trump tower and his real estate empire. Is that possible even if it is a slow process? No, I think the dramatic scene of being locked out of the Trump tower is not likely to unfold. First of all, Trump does not necessarily own all the assets in these real estate ventures. He has leveraged those properties and has partners on properties that also have claims. But also this takes a while. You have to seek authority to essentially confiscate property and then there could be further challenges to how you do that. The eagerness of James to start that process is a little bit telling. I mean, this is an attorney general who ran on the pledge to bag Trump without ever saying what she would prosecute him for. That's literally campaigning on a pledge of selective prosecution, something that is a nathema to the rule of law. But putting aside her eagerness, she will have to go through a process to actually confiscate property. Since these assets are not entirely owned by Donald Trump, there will be other companies and individuals who have a right to access and use of the property. The question for Trump is technical to some extent, but also common sense in another. These companies are not willing to take real estate as the collateral for the bond. Trump is in a very difficult position because of the nature of his business. There's a reasonable aspect to that. Objection, if he were 3M, then he could fork over the money, but he's not. He's someone who has spent his entire life with assets in real estate. Professor, and we've been playing them on the channel, and Fox News Channel, are these montages of Leticia James, the New York AG saying all of these things about Trump that she's going to get him legally? Is that something and appeals judge could weigh? They can, on the question of selective prosecution. The problem is that selective prosecution is very difficult to prove. Judges truly despise these motions. I have brought a couple of them. They don't want to be pulled into motivations of a prosecutor. Now, very few prosecutors are as raw and open as Leticia James. It's a disgrace to run on a pledge of selective prosecution. And also consider if you're a bank or bonding company, you have an attorney general who's laying waste to political opponents, who's pursuing people like Trump with unrelenting vigor. Do you really want to get in the crosshairs of an attorney general like that? That's the problem. And so I think New York is eviscerating its standing as a legal system. And I expect that there's going to be a greater exodus from the city due to this case. Well, just so we understand, I feel it's strange to be talking about a bond on a civil penalty. I don't think I've personally ever talked about that. I think we're used to using the words bond on criminal cases. Like we use bail. Why does he need to post, quote unquote, post bond here? Well, the theory is that after a trial, a prevailing party should not have to go through a appeal unless there is a guarantee that you are prepared as the losing party to pay up if you should not prevail. And the idea is that the other party has prevailed, has proven the case on the trial level. And so you can appeal, but you need to pony up to show that you're prepared to make good on that commitment. I've always been rather skeptical of these rules. I do believe that they can constitute a barrier to do process. But I have never, even though I've been a critic of that for years, I've never seen the likes of this. I mean, this is breathtaking that a judge would arbitrarily come up with this massive number, knowing that it would be very hard to allow any judge to look at his ruling unless the accused party sells off assets. And you know, this was a judge who was asked, I think reasonably by Trump and his team, to waive this bond requirement. He could have done that. So, Ingram could have just shown that he was not this hostile jurist. He could have shown that he had a certain degree of balance and circumspection. He didn't. He refused to make any changes at all in the bond obligation. He also opposed an astronomical interest of 9% annually plus added costs. All of that is rather confiscatory. And I think it does really raise a due process question under the Constitution. There's been a lot of movement in the Fulton County, Georgia case with the special prosecutor stepping down over the impropriety or the seemingly impropriety of their relationship with the DA. There's hushed money case out of Manhattan. Obviously, there's delay in the federal January 6 case. When you look at sort of, I guess, all of what's happening in Trump world on the legal dockets, just your gut reaction to how it all impacts the campaign in light of this new issue of needing to find money. Well, first of all, there is still a chance that Trump could be in trial before the election that has certainly dwindled in some of these cases, but there's still a chance one of these torpedoes will hit before the election. But the optics on that are having a rather curious impact on the election. Most of the public gets it. I mean, you don't have to light Donald Trump to look at these cases and have real reservations about what's happening in our legal system. These are politically motivated cases. The cases in New York are raw in political. Elvin Bragg is a broad case that none of us have seen the like of. He's essentially trying to make a misdemeanor under state law into a felony by charging a crime that the Department of Justice refused to prosecute. He's bootstrapping a federal offense into a state case. It's ridiculous in the case of Fahni Willis, the case that she's brought in in Atlanta. She has a racketeering theory that is so thin. It's virtually transparent. The connection between any of these 19 parties is so attenuated that it's going to have great difficulty in being upheld on appeal. But with all this pylon in all these different states, the public is reacting. Every indictment has produced better polling results for Trump. And there's a reason for that. The American people don't like it. They like illegal their legal system. They believe in blind justice. This is not it. And they know it. But when they see it, when they see select a prosecution, it's pretty obvious. Professor Johnathan Terrily, thank you so much for your insight. Appreciate it. Thank you. First of the Fox True Crime Podcast, Keith Reineri promised people a life of fulfillment and success with his group Nexium. But beneath the surface operated a sinister and depraved sex cult. India Oxenberg was trapped and exploited by Keith Reineri and Nexium for seven years. In 2018, she broke free. This week, India joins me to share her story of survival and her journey of healing, available now on Apple, Spotify and Fox News podcasts dot com. This is Janis Dean with your Fox News commentary coming up. Will the Senate join the House approving a bill that could ultimately ban a social media app? TikTok certainly is a dangerous tool in the hands of an adversary. Republican Congressman Mike Turner, who chairs the House Intelligence Committee, tells Fox that's because its parent company by dance is Chinese owned. People are understanding that China is an adversary. The ransomware, the attacks, the hacking that they do into our economy, the military buildup they do. A majority of Republicans and Democrats support the bill and President Biden says he would sign it. He would force TikTok to separate itself from bite dance or else be banned. A mid-concerned China is vacuuming up user data for surveillance, which TikTok denies. The company also says it is not owned by China and would not allow Chinese influence of content. TikTok users are angry at Congress. The potential ban would affect about 170 million Americans, including a couple of Texas ranchers turned TikTok influencers. All right, we're doing a Valentine series and the first day we're doing how we met. We always get this question. Okay, no go ahead. You always have to stop. Cody stalk me at the bank. That is not what happened. You did. I was working at the bank and he stalked me. That is not what happened. You saw my bank account in last time like a piranha. You came after me. Cody and Erica Archie have 1.2 million followers. You know, we never set out to do this. This was never in the plan in our heads. Now, the Archies have full-time jobs and run the bar seven ranch in Gatesville, Texas now famous after they were featured in a TikTok sparks good commercial. We had been on other platforms before just trying to tell our story of agriculture so that we could always have that story out there and make sure people knew where their food and their fiber came from and be transparent and genuine. Then one day we were on the way to feed some cows and we made a funny video and posted it on TikTok. Finally, we burst it out of that little bubble of family and friends that we had been in for so long and went viral on TikTok. Finally, got to share our story with millions of people across the world. What's that moment like, Cody, when suddenly you realize, holy moly, a lot of people are watching this. Well, that first video had like 15,000 views and I thought, well, now that I'm the king of TikTok and I've gone viral, which isn't even viral, you know, having 15,000 views. But you know, it's kind of humbling because you don't really think that people have an interest in your day-to-day life, but we've grown a huge community across this platform and many other platforms and just it's almost like we have family scattered all over the world now. So what is it that you have grown into becoming with TikTok and these other platforms? How do you influence? What do you put out there? We try every day to just put out educational content, just content that shows people how we live our lives, not just as ranchers, but as entrepreneurs, as just a family and put out just genuine content of what we're doing every day out here. Yeah, so we'll usually try to mix in one or two educational deals about like, you know, the kind of feed we're feeding or why we're doing something with the livestock that we have, why our son homeschools and just kind of debunking some of those myths and then we also mix in just some humor, just Eric and I's banter back and forth as a couple of 18 years of marriage and you know, we just mix all that stuff in and have a good time with it and people seem to enjoy it. They seem to be able to relate to it because it's it's real world experiences that we go through. We don't do the the trends. We don't do the dances and all that kind of stuff. So we've had a great experience with TikTok sharing and growing our community, but also we get to share our faith with with the world ever sunday. We do a capsule sermon. We'll do the week of Easter. We'll talk about what Christ was going through the end. We do an advent reading for the first 24 days of the month in December for Christmas and we just get to share the gospel there and and it's really just allowed us to reach a lot of folks. Has anyone ever asked you to modify your content or asked you to post something in particular from TikTok? Has TikTok ever gotten involved in anything you've done? TikTok has never asked us say, Hey, post this. Hey, will you do this? Hey, we do that. We did the commercial, the you know, TikTok sparks good campaign, but other than that, no, we don't we don't get paid by TikTok to produce content for TikTok. Now we do earn an income based on the views that our normal videos get, but that's I guess comes from some advertiser or something that paid the platform. I don't really know where that money comes from. Gotcha. Okay. Now how do a lot of there's other businesses that make money on TikTok? Is that how all monies made on TikTok? Are there varieties of ways to make money using the platform? There are varieties of ways, mostly to get paid from TikTok, you're going to get paid on views and comments and engagement and things like that, but then you could also get paid for brand deals that you make with certain brands reaching out to you and things like that. The create content for them, but they pay you directly or pay you in product. There are a lot of influencers and a lot of small businesses across the nation that earn money off of what's called TikTok shop. It's where they can sell their goods and services directly to the consumer using their own advertising ads, their own space on TikTok. So for you guys, TikTok has been great, right? In every way. Yep. Other than the ill informed that say we're supporters of the Chinese Communist Party and we should move to China and fly Chinese flag, but for the most part, yeah, I mean, obviously, obviously there are probably some people listening to think your brainwashed or something like that, but I want you to listen to the arguments for a ban, certainly for what Congress wants to have happened to TikTok. Now, obviously the FBI director has said that there's a threat with TikTok with Chinese influence. Congressmen might galagre, a public and is very much outspoken about Chinese influence in the US. He's worried about the manipulation of content. I want to you listen to the congressman. TikTok isn't just an app for funny dance videos. It is increasingly a new source for Americans under the age of 30 and allowing a CCP-controlled entity like TikTok to become the dominant media player in America would be like if in 1962 at the height of the Cold War right before the Cuban Missile Crisis, we'd allowed Provda and the KGB to purchase the New York Times, the Washington Post, ABC and NBC. So when you hear something like that, Cody and Erica, what do you think? The same guys that are up there spouting off that it's all about national security, also allowed the weather balloons to fly all over the United States without anything. They allow our open borders on the southern border people to just flood in by the thousands down there with no no checks and balances there. And when you take a look at it, what really got me thinking about this is it's really all about money. He's right. There is a lot of people that use this as a source of news and they don't have the control meaning Congress and the powers that be up there to manipulate what we're getting to see. When you go on there and post something, it goes up and that's just the way it is. It's not like it's Facebook or Instagram where it's shielding thoughts from other people and stuff they don't want you to see. Facebook is down because of TikTok, Amazon Marketplaces down because of TikTok shop. Does that make you think that there's something going on if those two guys are wanting to buy it as soon as it's up for sale? You know former president Trump has said that if there was a ban on TikTok, it would actually benefit Facebook, which he calls the true enemy of the people. Do you think Facebook or Instagram, you think they're worse than TikTok? I don't know about worse, but they all have problems. They all have faults. The difference is is this one in control by Silicon Valley and Washington. They don't have control over it, so it's public enemy number one. When there's far greater problems in the United States that we're facing right now that we need to be worrying about besides, what national secret are they going to steal from bar seven ranch? And the other thing is it's a voluntary app. If you choose to get on it, if you're worried that they're going to steal all your national security stuff, number one, there shouldn't be any social media apps on any government phone, any business phone in my opinion. If I provided phones from my employees, they would not be able to download any app because they're all spying on us. If we talk about butter dishes today, it's going to pop up on your phone when you look at your phone later this afternoon, whether you go to Google Amazon, Facebook, whatever it is, you're going to see an ad for butter dishes. Yeah, no, I understand. If the bill does pass the Senate and TikToks on the clock to have to get rid of its Chinese ownership, do you think that there will be a ban? What will you guys do? Just worry about your other accounts? Yes, I mean, we never saw ourselves being influencers. This just happened by chance and try the grace of God really. And we don't depend on any of the income that we earn off a TikTok to support our family. And the way we budget for our family, that's just extra. It goes over into a different account. But it's saying that, unfortunately, there are millions of people that it will deeply affect, that have relied on that income and rely on TikToks shop and things like that to generate their business. A lot of people look at TikTok and social media as all it is, it's just young kids dancing and singing and doing stuff like that. But there are five million small businesses that are earning income there that is taxable income that goes to fund US tax money. It gets taxed just like your regular job. And there are a lot of people that said, hey, they have learned over the last couple of years, I can make more money selling t-shirts that I print in my backyard, in my garage, on TikTok, then I ever could work in an eight to five job. It must be fun, though, to put the videos out and have the community that you have and the reaction to different videos and getting to know people that would never have known you at bar seven in Gatesville, Texas. Absolutely. That's what we love best is we wouldn't do it. People ask us all the time, you know, isn't this time consuming? Doesn't this get old? And we would not do it if we weren't still having fun every day. And we just, it's not a job to us because we've truly just video parts of our lives every single day and put out, you know, what's happening here and share it with the people that are out there. And we get tons of comments and direct messages, private messages every day that are encouraging to keep sharing our journey. All right. Since you both liked to put pieces of advice on your on your TikTok channel, what would you tell someone who asks, how do I go viral? Man, there is no, there is no formula for that because we'll create something and we're like, man, this is going to be a hit. And it just maybe doesn't go anywhere. And then you do something, it's just like, we're just going to throw this up there because we don't have anything else to put up right now. We had, you know, got our phones out when we were doing something. And you know, we're just going to put it up there for filler and it takes off. It's really, it really just depends on what the people that are on right then are watching and what they find amusing or interesting. There really is no formula for it that we found. But the advice I always tell people is just do it. Just post just video things that happen in your life and what you're interested in and what you would want to continue to video every day and make content about and see what happens because you never know what's going to happen. It seems like that like anything with an animal and it will usually get a lot of views. So if you have a good place to start. All right. Well, Cody and Erica Archie ranchers at bar seven ranch in Gatesville, Texas influencers on TikTok. Thank you so much for joining us. Thank you for having us. And in other news, I'm Gianna Jalosi. If you have a couple hundred thousand dollars, that's just burning a hole in your pocket. I have an idea for you. A Michelin star meal in space. Space VIP is one of the first luxury space tourism companies and it's hosting an immersive dining experience in space with Michelin star Dana chef Rasmus Monk. Six people will quote be making history by enjoying a meal of a lifetime above 99% of Earth's atmosphere during a six hour journey. For a cool $495,000 per ticket, the chef is going to whip up the meal aboard the space perspective spaceship Neptune. The mission is set to launch in late 2025 from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. It's not a rocket, but a pressurized capsule propelled by a space balloon. Travelers are going to get to watch the sunrise a hundred thousand feet above sea level. The actual menu though has yet to be finalized, but all proceeds are going to benefit the space prize foundation, which promotes gender equity in science and tech. For the Fox News rundown, I'm Gianna Jalosi. I'm Dana Perino, co-host of the Five and co-anchor of America's newsroom. Join me for my brand new podcast Perino on Politics. Every Monday, I'm going to talk to people I trust in politics. Whether you like it or not, a presidential rematch is underway. This week, sub-stacker and founder of Melmond Consulting, Bruce Melmond joins me with his analysis of this very familiar election. Available now on Apple, Spotify and Fox News Podcasts.com. For Maureen Flavin-Sweeney, it was her weather report that helped win a world war. Maureen grew up in the southern part of County Kerry, Ireland. At the age of 18, she took a job as a post office assistant in Blacksawd. According to the Irish independent, Blacksawd was the first land-based observation station in Europe, where weather readings could be professionally taken on the prevailing European Atlantic-Western weather systems. During World War II, the Republic of Ireland was neutral, but it did allow the sharing of weather information with Great Britain. Maureen spent quite a bit of her time writing down the atmospheric conditions. She really didn't understand what for, but she was diligent about her work and getting it right. It was on her 21st birthday on June 3, 1944 at 1am that Maureen was making her report. One crucial instrument that has been used to study the weather since the 1600s is a barometer. It measures the atmospheric pressure which gives us clues about the conditions we're going to experience. On that morning, Maureen's research was showing that the air pressure was dropping rapidly. That meant there was something out there in the Atlantic, a nasty storm that would hit the Irish coast, move over the UK, then down over the channel into Normandy, France. Miss Flavin compiled the weather conditions and then sent it to Dublin. What she didn't know at the time was that the information was then forwarded to Dunstable, England, where the meteorological headquarters were stationed. Captain James Martin Stagg, the chief meteorologist for US General Dwight D Eisenhower, was helping plan the Allied invasion. Stagg and his staff saw what Maureen was sending them, a drop in the barometric pressure indicating a strong area of low pressure. The Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force was forwarded her weather reports, which were then checked and double checked. General Eisenhower decided to postpone D-Day by one day, so instead of going ahead on the 5th, the invasion took place on June 6th. Maureen had no idea of the gravity of her reporting. If it weren't for the accurate prediction, Allied forces would have gone ahead on the 5th of June and the invasion would have been a disaster. It wasn't until decades later that Maureen realized how crucial her observations were. Maureen was honored in a ceremony in June of 2021, marking the 77th anniversary of D-Day, and the role she played in helping change the course of the invasion. Her name is now listed in the US Congressional Record for the now famous weather report she delivered, that ultimately saved countless lives. Maureen Flavin-Sweeney was 100 years old when she died December 17th, 2023, in a nursing home in Belmullet, Ireland, very close to the post office, where she used to work. There is no doubt in my mind that one person can make a difference. The trajectory of history was changed forever because of one woman's hard work, determination, diligence, and a precise weather report she delivered. And that deserves to be celebrated and shared. For more information, visit www.maureenflavin.com