 Sunday March 24th, 2024. I'm Jessica Brosenthal. Israel's Prime Minister says they're going after Hamas and the heavily populated town of Rafa. But the Biden administration's urging caution and still expecting Israel to make its case at the White House this week. We're going to sit there and we're going to talk to them about some of our perspectives and we're going to share with them some some viable options here that hopefully give them pause to think about Rafa operations in a different way. I'm Jared Halper. The Veepe Stakes is underway giving us weeks of drama over who former president Trump will tap is his running mate. Vice presidential candidates don't necessarily win elections, but the pick of the wrong one can can help lose it. This is the Fox News rundown from Washington. A delegation from Israel supposed to come to the White House this week ahead of Israel's promise to go after Hamas in an area of Gaza called Rafa. It is full of civilians. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said from Egypt next to the country's foreign minister what the priorities are right now. Cease fire, release of hostages, humanitarian assistance and a clear pathway in plan for the future. He said last week that when they speak to the Israeli delegation this week he hopes to make clear why we think it would be a mistake to engage in major military operations in Rafa, but also why there's a false choice involved that it is possible and indeed necessary to deal with the ongoing threat posed by Hamas, but without a major military operation. That's what we want to discuss. Egypt's foreign ministers said he thought a double standard was being applied to the Palestinian cause that the moral basis upon which they can rely on a world order are being strained here. This should be recognized as a severe challenge to our ability to work together, to continue to cooperate on unpredictable set of principles. All of that was Thursday. Friday, Blinken met with Israel's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu, whom our Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer recently called an obstacle in the war. He also called for new elections in Israel. Netanyahu says he told Blinken that Israel is grateful for U.S. support and that he recognizes the need to evacuate civilians from battle zones. I also said that we have no other way to defeat Hamas without going into Rafa and eliminate the remaining Hamas battalions. I also told them I hope we will do it with the support of the U.S., but if we have to we will do it alone. Friday, the U.S. proposed resolution for an immediate ceasefire along with a release of hostages failed at the UN Security Council with vetoes from Russia and China. They said there should be a ceasefire regardless of the hostages. It is not the first time a U.S. resolution regarding the war between Israel and Hamas has been vetoed. The hope is that we can get the hostages out. John Kirby is the White House National Security Communications Advisor. And the hope is that we can get a six-week ceasefire place so that the violence can come down so that more aid can get in to Gaza. Why does the UN need to be a part of it, though? We believe it is important for the United Nations and for the international community to stand up for all the same things that are so important to the people of Gaza and to the Israeli people. I mean, this resolution that we submitted also included a condemnation of Hamas. No other resolution prior to the one that we submitted was willing to go as far as condemning Hamas for what they did on the 7th of October. So we believe it's important that the international community speak with one voice about what matters here and what we should all be pushing for. Israel's Prime Minister, as you know, said after meeting with Secretary Blinken that he appreciates the U.S. support. He hopes it continues. But there is no scenario in which Hamas is eliminated without Israel going into Rafa. And if they have to do that, they'll do it alone. But we all know a delegation is supposed to be coming to the White House. That's right. With what? To present a plan? I mean, what's happening? Will Israel wait until after it's presented the White House a plan? I think you'd have to ask the Israelis about their military plans. I'm sure certainly not going to get into talking about that for them. What I can say is that we still don't support a major ground operation in Rafa. Certainly not one that doesn't properly account for the 1.5 millions of gauze and refugees who are in Rafa. Because of operations that happened to the North in previous weeks, there's got to be a plan to make sure that we can ensure their safety and security. And a major ground offensive right now, as we've said, would be a disaster. So we've invited this delegation to Washington, DC. They'll be here soon. We look forward to discussing with them some of our lessons learned and perspectives in urban warfare and dense environments and sharing with them some other alternatives that they should be considering before they move in and in a major and conduct some sort of major ground operation. We see the secretary, we see Secretary Blinken. I know you're not state. But we see Secretary Blinken meeting with officials from Egypt, with the Jordanians, with the Qataris. Is there any pressure on them, especially Jordan and Egypt, rather than Israel to say, you know, if you care so much about Palestinian civilians, why aren't you letting them in? I thought I thought in global affairs, that's what happens is the nearby countries who are sympathetic would open their doors. Well, we don't want any sort of force relocation of the gauze and of gauze and Palestinians outside Gaza. And most folks in Gaza don't want that leave because they're concerned about if they left, would they be able to get back in? And we are talking to our counterparts every single day about what they can do to help increase the flow of humanitarian assistance. That includes Jordan. That includes Egypt. That includes our other Gulf partners. I mean, this is a constant conversation that we're having with them. If the if this delegation comes to the White House before any any effort happens in Rafa, do we expect somebody at the White House, maybe even the president to sign off on some plan or make some statement after the delegations left? And is there a risk there? Because if any, if there's any White House approved plan, does that mean the administration gets blamed? Now hang on just a second. I mean, how far how far are we going in terms of we are of approval or being being involved in what Israel is doing? There's an awful lot to that question. So let me just try to break it down here. Israel is a sovereign nation. And they were attacked on the 7th of October in the most horrific of ways. They have every right and a responsibility to look after their own security and to and to eliminate the threat that is posed by Hamasah group that wants to do October 7th all over again. And you know what, we're still helping them with the kinds of capabilities that they need to do that. We are not dictating their operations to them. We are not making operational decisions for them. We are and have I might might add since October of last year have been providing our lessons learned and our perspectives about this kind of warfare lessons that we learned in some very painful ways over the last 20 plus years in Iraq and Afghanistan. And it wouldn't be right for a friend of Israel as we are not to share those lessons learned. And so we look forward to having the delegation here next week. We're going to sit there and we're going to talk to them about some of our perspectives. And we're going to share with them some some viable options here that hopefully give them pause to think about Rafa operations in a different way and not necessarily go in you know in a major ground offensive with 1.5 million people that are that are facing potential starvation here and desperate need of humanitarian assistance. But you talk about lessons learned that's a really important point because if you're sharing if we if we are sharing that with Israel, then how is what is the lesson? How is Israel supposed to go into Rafa when Hamas, which is the target, is using Palestinians as human shields and there's still a tunnel network. I mean, yeah, you're right. That makes it really really hard, doesn't it? Because Hamas is not abiding by any kind of international rule of law here or law of war. They are sheltering behind civilians. It is made things very difficult for the Israelis. And it's not just that they're hiding behind civilians. It's that they're doing it in such a densely urban populated highly populated environment. Gaza is a tiny strip with a lot of people living in it. And Hamas is using that to their advantage. That's what makes this so difficult. And that's even why it's more important for us to share with the Israelis, you know, our thinking on this, our perspectives, as we have since the very beginning of the conflict. But ultimately, it's their decision to make. And this narrative out there that I've heard that we're sort of we're dictating terms to them or we're telling them how to conduct their operations is just bunk. It's just not true. We've never done that. And we're not going to start doing that. That said, we've learned what valuable lessons. And as a friend and an ally of Israel, we we feel it's incumbent upon us to to share those lessons with them so that they can do this in a way that doesn't put that 1.5 million people at greater danger. You mentioned aid and that people in Gaza are starving. You know, every time I hear aid discussed reporters say, what are you doing to get Palestinians aid? Israel's the problem. Israel's blocking the aid. So I'll take the flip side of that here because Israel says it's absolutely not blocking aid. That Hamas is getting in the way that looting is happening. We've seen videos on social media. Israel is even supporting this idea of a port to get aid in. It's interesting to hear Israel being blamed for the aid not getting in. So what then what is the solution here to getting aid in? No, there've been a lot of challenges about getting aid in a lot. It is a it's a war zone. You know, before the before the October, October attacks, there was 500 some odd trucks getting into Gaza every day because there wasn't a lot of fighting. Well, now there's fighting. And just being a war zone makes it hard to to to get trucks moving. There are checkpoints they have to get through. That is true. There have been some there's been some resistance on the Israeli side. It's certain crossings at certain times to to allow stuff in. We've worked that out with our Israeli counterparts. We're continuing to work that out with our Israeli counterparts. We have taken on the role of doing some air drops. It's not anywhere near enough and it's not going to supplement what you can get in by trucks, but we're we're still dropping things from the air. And you're right. Now we are moving by sea, a temporary peer to try to see if we can find another avenue, a maritime avenue to get aid in. There's a lot of work being done by a lot of folks, but there's a lot of challenges that have prevented aid from getting in. Just a couple more for you. We know after Senator leader of Chuck Schumer's speech about Israel, you know, he's saying Netanyahu is the block to peace. There are at least one block to peace. He said the fourth, right? And there needs to be new elections when the war winds down, quote unquote. We know the president said it was a good speech. He kept his comments brief on that, but the it does seem like and we have Fox News pulling on this. It does seem like there's a divide among Democrats about supporting Israel versus supporting Palestinians. Is there a possibility in this Democratic administration? I don't even know if you can answer this, but is there a possibility that Israel loses funding or has funding cut or some funding cut? If if they're not on the same page with the United States. Well, look, I'm not going to talk about the Democratic politics one way or the other. That's not my place here at the National Security Council. I can tell you that you talked about support for Israel support for Palestinians and almost like it's a sort of a balanced equation or we know it's it's a binary choice. We don't view it that way. We're going to continue to support Israel. We are providing them weapons and capabilities. That support continues. They have a right to defend themselves and they need our help to do that. We don't want to see October 7th happen again. On the on the same token, we also have we all have the international community as an obligation to alleviate the suffering of the people of Gaza. They have they have lost tens of thousands of their friends and loved ones. Tens of thousands more injured and wounded in this conflict. They didn't ask for this. They weren't the ones storming that concert on the 7th of October. Hamas doesn't represent them other aspirations. They need help and the United States is going to continue to be a world leader and doing what we can to get them the food, water, medicine and fuel that they need. You can do both. A country as big and as powerful as us. It has to be able to do both. And that's what the president is focused on. Finally, we heard from Secretary Blinken after meeting with Egypt's foreign minister. A lot of mentions. A ceasefire, no immediate ground invasion of Rafa, the release of the hostages, humanitarian aid, even reforms to the PA. And it does get you thinking about the future. I know that there's a war. You said it's a war zone. But when we hear the secretary speak about a future and we see Mahmoud Abbas of the PA appointing, I think it's a prime minister, right, who has extensive experience with Gaza. Is the future here the PA running Gaza? I mean, I know we don't know, but what are we sort of thinking? Almost again, since the beginning of the conflict, we've been focused on a post-conflict future for Gaza and for the Palestinian people who live there. And this is something Secretary Blinken has spearheaded for the administration. And you heard your right. You heard him on this most recent trip talking about post-conflict Gaza. It's very much been on his mind. And we still believe in the promise of a two-state solution. And the president continues to believe that that's in the best interest, not just of the Palestinian people, but for the Israeli people as well. A two-state solution with Israel's security guaranteed. And one of the ways we believe that you can get to that is a revitalized Palestinian authority. And this gets to your direct question. We have seen Mahmoud Abbas in the Palestinian Authority make some personnel changes that have been welcomed, that have been indicative of the degree to which they are trying to move the PA forward. And we believe that that is the one of the key parts, key components, of being able to get post-conflict Gaza governed in a way that doesn't present a threat to the Israeli people or to the Israeli nation. But also does a better job looking after the aspirations of the Gaza people than what Hamas has done. Back to the question you asked me a little bit ago, which was a really good one and a fair one. They are hiding behind these civilians. They are making them targets. They are still there's been fighting over the Auschwifa hospital because they are still using the hospital to shelter. And to fight Israeli ground forces there. I mean, this is them putting the people of Gaza at greater risk. And they clearly don't have the Palestinian people best interests in mind. And what we believe is that we need whatever governance looks like in Gaza. And you're right, I can't give you the exact answer. But whatever it looks like, it can't be Hamas number one. And two, it's got to start with at least a revitalized Palestinian Authority that can again properly govern and look after those aspirations. White House National Security Communications Adviser John Kirby, thank you so much for your time. Yeah, my pleasure anytime. From the Fox News Podcasts Network, stay on top of the latest news and information from Fox News. Listen and download the Fox News hourly update on your time, the trending stories you need anytime you want it. Listen and download now by going to FoxNewsPodcasts.com. Is your March madness bracket already busted? If so, no worries. You can now spend your time on another American tradition of making picks. The Veeb stakes with former president Donald Trump securing the delegates needed for the Republican nomination. The next major touchstone in this election season in his campaign will be who he picks as a running mate. Every week it seems, new names emerge as potential vice presidential nominees leaving the impression the shortlist may not be all that short. Who a nominee selects is his or her running mate usually comes down to strategy, trying to make up gaps and say experience or voting blocks or even geographic appeal. Carl Rove, a former deputy chief of staff and senior advisor to president George W. Bush, says the selection also provides a window into a candidate's thinking. In a conventional campaign, this would have already started the process of vetting your potential nominee had already would have already begun, even if the primaries had yet to go on for a while. But it really depends on the instincts and the priorities of the candidate. The first priority from a political perspective is what can be done to help put the ticket in the best chance of winning the fall election. Vice presidential candidates don't necessarily win elections, but the pick of the wrong one can help lose it. What you need to do is start by making certain that you knight the party and that you fill in any problem areas that might hurt you coming down the stretch. For example, in 2008, you had the young brash Barack Obama, who had been literally a member of the United States Senate for four years and had no international experience. And so they picked a senior Democrat who had been at one point the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Joe Biden. In 2008, the same election, John McCain was trying to figure out how to energize the Republican party. And so he ended up picking Sarah Palin. 1980, Ronald Reagan demonstrated his bigness as a candidate and as a potential president by saying, I'm going to pick my principal opponent in the Republican primaries so that I can unite the party and go into the general election with everybody excited about having a piece of the ticket. So you start by trying to at least create no harm by having somebody on the ticket who's going to urge you that they're not going to help you a lot. But if you make the wrong pick, it can hurt you a lot because it can show a weakness that you've not tempted to fill. So as we look at former president Trump, obviously, I guess the quote from their spokesperson was the short list is pretty long. I guess we'll just call it a list then, but obviously unifying the party is still something I think that they are focused on, right? When you look at even if it's not a huge number, the number of Republicans who voted for somebody other than Donald Trump in these Republican primaries and the number of those who have indicated a level of uncomfortability with Donald Trump as a nominee. Well, first of all, he is the incumbent. I mean, we forget that we've been in this position since, you know, like 1892 on the Democrats. I'd, you know, we're over a Cleveland coming back to try and went back to presidency from Benjamin Harris, but he is in essence the incumbent. So the fact that somebody was getting 30% and nearly 40% in the primaries is problematic. But would be even more problematic if to anybody sitting inside that cockpit right now is that even after Nikki Haley got out 15 to 20% of the people in these recent primaries voted for her or somebody else. And that's a problem because again, he was the president of the United States as a Republican and he's running again for his party's nomination. And even after nobody is as opposing them, one out of every five people who turned out to vote in the last set of primaries or one out of six said, I'm not voting for the guy. So yes, he's got a united party really critical for him. So the other part that's fascinating about that is the last person he picked as his running mate in former vice president Mike Pence, who I think was also kind of a pick to try and consolidate the conservative base who were still kind of hesitant about about Donald Trump. That's not the dynamic now. But Mike Pence hasn't endorsed his former running and doesn't seem inclined to ever do so. Does that complicate the ability to kind of bring somebody in who can unify the Republican party? Yeah, we know it is a complicating factor. I mean, look, think about the members of the former president's cabinet who not endorsed him in won't. I mean, anybody think Rex Tillerson, former secretary of state is going to come out enthusiastically for Donald Trump or that, you know, they're just not going to happen. And what's interesting to me is most of the time a vice presidential nominee can help you avoid problems, but is not a great, you know, sort of advantage to one ticker or the other. But the vice president for each side is going to be critical. There are a lot of people who are saying that I've run into say, look, I liked what Donald Trump did, but I don't like him personally, but I do not want Kamala Harris to be president. And I worry about that is a prospect because Joe Biden is 81. He'll be 82 by the time of the next inaugural. It's elected. So Trump, on the other hand, has people who say, you know what, I don't like, yeah, I don't like him. I may have liked some of his policies. I'm a, you know, I really, I'm not going to vote for Biden. But he can cement them. He gives a better chance of winning those people. Maybe he's got somebody who says, you know, well, you know what, Tim Scott strikes me as a good man. And that's a solid individual. So just like Mike Pence helped him in 2020, you knight the Republican Party by bringing in evangelicals and midwesterners. And frankly, candidly, I'm I suggested it to the former president back in 2016, May of 2016. I think it was, I met with him after the Indiana primary mutual, you know, somebody who knew him took me to a meeting with him and my friend and his friend then candidate Trump asked him, who should I pick? And he, he gave a suggestion of somebody, which I didn't think, you know, I didn't agree with him when Trump turned to me and said, what do you think? I said, I know you, I like the idea of having somebody from the Midwest. But, you know, you might want to think about the governor of Indiana. He wasn't for you, but he didn't attack you. He was for Ted Cruz and he represents a more conservative wing of the party and the evangelicals like him a lot. And he's a midwestern governor and Indiana has the highest percentage of manufacturing jobs in the country. So if you're making a picture for the blue collar worker, he comes in from a state where the Republicans have made a tradition of being able to appeal to a working class people who are in the plant, various kinds of plants and and manufacturing facilities in the state and winning them. So, you know, again, Trump has got to figure out does he want to have somebody who makes him feel good, you know, as somebody who, you know, has sort of, you know, star power and but but the main thing is that he feels their loyalty and that they're strongly for him personally, or does he pick somebody who is obviously for him, but allows the other people would see as broadening his appeal and bringing in, you know, being basically a bouquet that thrusts in the direction of the other people who said, you know, I'm not vote for him even if he's the only guy left on the in the primary. Do you think he's considering Nikki Haley? Well, look, I know, I don't see he's not Ronald Reagan. He just doesn't big enough to say I'm going to pick George HW Bush, you know, I'm going to pick Nikki Haley. But the question is, is he thinking about, you know, somebody like say a Christy gnome or is he thinking about a Tim Scott, you know, and I for both of those names, the other thing that I've kind of the conventional wisdom out there is that, you know, the ticket is looking for a woman given obviously the role that abortion is expected to play in this race given that that is a demographic that the former president is kind of underperformed traditionally with other Republican candidates. What's your view on that? Adding a woman on the ticket is not going to solve that problem. What's going to solve that problem is having presidential candidate who can articulate a message about abortion that's got several components. One, empathy, you know, understanding that this is a tough decision. Two, reasonableness that they are in favor of as as president Trump has indicated, you know, look, we are to recognize that there ought to be limits and there ought to be a period of a reasonable period of time in which a woman can make that decision and abort the child and 15 or 16 weeks seems to be reasonable. There need to be exceptions, rape, incest, life of the mother and there there maybe there needs to be the decision that parents ought to be involved in the decision of their teenage daughters. But you know, and it ought to be left up to the states that, you know, as opposed to a simple federal answer, I think the one point that helped Nikki Haley a lot during the primaries was she sounded like the adult on that stage. We're not going to get 60 votes in the US Senate for any kind of abortion or to leave this up to the states as we in the pro-life movement they've been talking about for decades and as the Supreme Court clearly pointed to. So I think it what matters more how Donald Trump handles it than just simply adding a woman to the ticket. The other, I guess the new name out there now, at least this week is Marco Rubio, a former rival politically of Donald Trump points upon a time. I think that's all water under the bridge at this point. But you know, he's somebody who would bring that foreign policy experience given his tenure in the Senate. I don't know if we count Florida sort of as a swing state so much anymore, but that's an interesting name that I had not considered until I heard it kind of reported this week. Well, it's no longer a swing state because people like Ronda Santis and Marco Rubio came to the state and the advantage there is is that he would have an appeal in the Hispanic communities and there's not just one Hispanic or Latino community. Multiple ones and he comes out of the Cuban American experience, but also interestingly enough, spent part of his childhood in Nevada, which is going to be a battleground state where Latinos are a critical voting block and his life experience of being the son of a bartender and a hotel made allows him to deform a bond that could be particularly powerful. And I've seen it and it sought in as presidential race. We've seen it as races in Florida. He knows what it's like to start out on the shabby side of the middle class and work your way up and his parents were great examples to him. And that is one of the things that I think would make him particularly powerful in the Hispanic communities. How much, I guess I'm curious, you would know this better than I, is there an electoral problem with him picking some different Florida like one of them would have to move, right? Wasn't that like, didn't that come up with Dick Cheney? Yeah, that's a 12th amendment problem. Yeah. Donald Trump's voting residence is now in Florida, supposed to New York and that there would be a problem. Said the Democrats would have the same problem of Joe Biden. We're not running and Gavin with Gavin Newsom and Kamala Harris, right? He's governor of California. He's the former US Senator from from California and which one of them is going to change your voting residence? That's a problem. It's not an movable object. I was just curious about not that that's something that once upon a time, I think the Bush ticket had to deal with, right? Exactly. Now the 12th amendment just for our listeners who don't know what what these two political birds are talking about, you cannot cast the votes of a state for a president and a vice presidential candidate from that state. This was passed in 1801 after the election of 1800 ended in a tie in the electoral college and it was an attempt to make certain that in the, you know, the small number of states that we then had, I think they were 16 or 17, that you didn't have political power concentrated in one state. And yes, in 2000, George W. Bush decided that he was going to pick the guy who was in charge of the process of vetting nine people that we're looking at. And we had to have Cheney. Fortunately, Cheney had lived in Wyoming, been a congressman. Looking congressman from Wyoming. Yeah, he had roots there. He had a residence in Wyoming. He was then living in Dallas running Halliburton, the world's largest oil field service company. And so, but we had to have him go back to Wyoming and on a Friday morning, reregister so that he could be announced the following week as the running mate and the 12th Amendment problem had gone away. I can not be movedable, but it is something that the think about is we look at these different Let me finish with this and that's kind of you kind of talked about the the challenges, obviously, with unifying, trying to find maybe where you have deficits in different voting blocks. How much do you try and find somebody, I mean, it's only one night, but that vice presidential debate, somebody who maybe has experience in that arena. Yeah, well, there are two moments you think about when you're thinking about the vice president. You've hit on one of them. How well are they going to perform in the vice presidential debate? The good news for the Republican nominee is is it almost whoever you pick is going to by nature do a better job than Kamala Harris, who is a dreadful public speaker and dreadful in debates. But here's the other thing you need to do. You need to have somebody who can speak at the Republican National Convention, which is going to be the most watched part of the campaign outside of the debates and make a good impression on the American people. And somebody who certainly can highlight, because whoever you have is probably going to have at least in their history some policy differences, right? So kind of the ability to set that aside and talk about the things that you agree on. Right. And also talk about then who they are. I mean, we look, we pick people not because we agree with them on the issues 100 percent, but because we broadly think that they're sort of in general agreement with us about what the big things are and what we need to do. We elect that people though, because we think they have authenticity and that they have character and that they're going to do something that we think is vital for the country. And whether it's in 2015, 2016, we wanted on the Republican side, somebody who was going to take a brick and throw through the plate class window of American politics. And that man was Donald Trump. But now we're going to be looking at him and saying, is this person up to the job? And do we think that if something terrible were to happen to it into the president, would we be comfortable with them stepping in? Would we have confidence in him? And this is Kamala Harris's problem. I mean, as bad as Joe Biden's numbers, our hers are worse because people can't look at her and say, yes, we have confidence that she has what it takes. Donald Trump would be well served by picking somebody that people would look at and say, well, you know, Donald Trump is running for a second term. So he's only got four more years and he's getting up there. And who would we have confidence in if something happened or if, you know, if I had to hand it off in 28 now, exactly. Yeah. So that usually these are announced what the week of the week before the convention, that is not until July Carl. That is a long time. When do you think, you know, the former president makes his announcement? Well, I don't know. He said he's already made a decision. I, I, I, I were him. I get that decision out there sooner rather than later. But on the other hand, there is something useful. I mean, the drama of going through a process is, is useful because you're, you're looking for reasons to have people pay attention to you. Now, it's not hard when you're Joe Biden and Donald Trump people pay attention to you. But it is a way to make it not just about you, but about your thought process and about this important individual who's going to play a big role in your administration. So our convention, the Republican convention is the middle of July. So I would surprise if this didn't take him another couple of, you know, months before he decides that it's a auspicious time to roll it out. But, you know, he's got his hands full right now. So I don't expect it will have, have this announced until late May or June or maybe even the middle of June. Well, then you and I will have plenty of time to reevaluate and have these conversations. Again, Carl Rae always appreciate our chats. Thanks so much. You bet. Thank you. That will do it for this edition of the Fox News rundown from Washington podcast. Tomorrow on the Fox News rundown, Arkansas Republican Brad Winstruck shares the House panel on the coronavirus pandemic, leading an investigation of the US response and the origins of the virus. He's also among the growing number of lawmakers retiring at the end of this term. We'll talk about both of those storylines. Until then, thanks for listening. I'm Jared Halpern. From Washington.