 I'm Charles Payne. I'm Martha McCallum. I'm Greg Jarrett and this is the Fox News rundown. Friday, March 8th, 2024, I'm Jessica Rosenfall. Did the commander-in-chief make his case for another four years after an energetic and political stated the union address in this election year? Biden showed off a feisty side. He showed off a political side where he was drawing contrasts on issues that Republicans I think have some vulnerability on. I'm Chris Foster. The Oscars run Sunday with big movies about a farm and a doll and smaller movies fewer people have seen expected to win awards. The reality is that on a creative level, it's a strong showing for the best picture nominee, at least that part of it, gives people a reason to celebrate. And if Barbie makes younger people tune in, then all the better. And on Kennedy, I've got the final word on the Fox News rundown. President Biden opened the state of the union by telling us that like President Roosevelt did during World War II, he needs to wake up Congress and the American people about the threats we face. Not since President Lincoln and the Civil War have freed him and democracy been under salt at home as there are today. What makes our moment rare is the freedom of democracy, under attack at both at home and overseas. He said January 6th and lies about the 2020 election pose the gravest threat to our democracy since the Civil War. He moved on to abortion, saying former President Trump brags about the overturning of Roe versus Wade. Many of you in this chamber and my predecessor are promising to pass a national ban on reproductive freedom. My God, what freedom else would you take away? Well, inflationary pressures were not a focus of his speech. He did argue that he's focused on bringing costs down overall, like the cost of prescription drugs. The President also proposed addressing the debt, at least in part, by taxing billionaires and corporations at a higher rate. Folks at home, does anybody really think the tax code is fair? Do you really think the wealthy and big corporations need another $2 trillion tax break? I sure don't. And the Republicans response to the State of the Union, Alabama Senator Katie Britt argued that the President can't talk about inflation or economic pressures because he's a career politician and is badly out of touch. It's been a minute since Joe Biden pumped gas, ran a carpool or even pushed a grocery cart. Meanwhile, the rest of us see our dollar and we know it doesn't go as far. So did the President's third State of the Union address connect with voters this election year? This is one of the most political speeches I can recall in the many, many states of the Union. I've witnessed and reported on in my career, but it was an effective speech, I think. Josh Krasauer is Fox News Radio's political analyst. That Biden showed off a feisty side. He showed off a political side where he was drawn contrasts on issues that Republicans, I think, have some vulnerability on whether it's abortion rights, whether it's the Republican party's view on Ukraine and funding for Ukraine's fight against Russia, defense against Russia as aggression, whether it's what happened on January 6th. Those were issues that Biden brought up at the outset and made Republicans including Speaker Johnson look a little bit uncomfortable and figured out when to stand, when to look by partisan, when not to. He sat down for almost the entire speech with a few scattered applause here and there, but look, this was a very political speech where Biden wanted to show off the fact that he is aggressively making his case for a second term and making the case that the economy and his stewardship of the economy is his pain dividends. He painted this very terribly stark picture that we're facing these unprecedented times. He said not since President Lincoln and the Civil War have freed him and democracy have been under assault here at home and abroad, saying if you think Vladimir Putin will stop at Ukraine, you're wrong. He also said my predecessor and some of you here seek to bury the truth about January 6th and I won't do that. I guess that felt very, very dark and opening the state of the union with this message that were not strong, that they were in trouble. There was a lot of focus on national security, foreign policy, leaving with Ukraine and the fact that there's a fear that if Ukraine loses the war, Russia could threaten other NATO countries. So that was a very stark warning from the commander-in-chief. He also talked about the Middle East and the threat, the hostages that Hamas has held and murdered and talked about putting pressure on Israel as well to deal with the humanitarian crisis taking place in Gaza, talked about China and the threat it poses on numerous fronts. So this was a speech that was talked about the high stakes, not just on the international stage, but also domestically with the future of democracy in this country on the line. I want to bring in my Fox News radio colleague, Jared Halpern, Washington DC correspondent, Jared, after the discussion about the threats here at home and abroad, he moved on to discussing abortion women's reproductive rights, highlighting the guests who were present to either struggle to get an abortion in Texas or an IVF procedure in Alabama. It just reminds you that after maybe concerns about foreign policy, this domestic issue is really going to be a big issue that Republicans are going to be facing throughout this election year. It's been a big issue since Roe v. Wade was overturned and the president talked about that. He gave the history lesson. He said that clearly those bragging about overturning Roe v. Wade have no clue about the power of women in America. He went on to talk about how reproductive rights were on the ballot in the one in 2022 and 2023 and says that they will win again in 2024. Listen, we have seen pretty dramatic shifts of the political landscape, especially in kind of suburban areas. And a lot of that happened in the aftermath of Roe v. Wade. And so listen, this is an area when you talk about reaching out to Haley Republicans or moderate Republicans or independent voters, it's an issue that has hit. And clearly it remains to be on the forefront. You have seen Republicans kind of move quickly to try and reaffirm IVF after the Alabama Supreme Court ruling. And so it makes a lot of sense that if this speech is largely intended to kind of be a referendum on his presidency and a list of why he deserves a second term that protecting access to abortion would be high on that list. Yeah. Jared, the president didn't really address inflation, but he did posit what he wanted to do in terms of the economy. And that is raised taxes, specifically in corporations and the billionaires. We've heard this before in his term. This may not end up being anything more than a proposal, right? But I didn't hear anything else about addressing, gosh, $34 trillion in debt. That was one of the first things Nikki Haley mentioned in her, you know, suspending her campaign speech. Well, when the president talks about raising taxes, especially in corporations, a minimum tax of 25% for billionaires, that is addressing the national debt. He talks about how much that would cut the deficit by. Now, obviously, you know, spending programs and other things probably are going to work against it. The other thing that he mentioned in the State of the Union that I had not heard before, at least kind of in a specific policy realm, was this idea of a temporary two-year tax deduction or tax benefit on mortgages. Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's another way in which President Biden has kind of messaged inflation, right? He talks about inflation, kind of in a more macro sense about how much people are paying for things. So, he'll point to bringing down the cost of prescription drugs is fighting inflation. It's not really what inflation is after, but- Right, because that's more the Fed's purview, right? Sure, but he views exactly. But, you know, when you hear the president and you hear the White House kind of talk about inflation, they try and pivot a little bit to bringing down everyday costs. Junk fees. The president talked a little bit about that. He's made that a big part of his campaign. Talks about bringing down student loans. All of that in the context of bringing down everyday expenses, a tax deduction for mortgages that's temporary for two years, I think would kind of fit in that category. Josh, the border. The president tried to talk about it, right? He tried to pin things, turn things background on Republicans, accusing them of failing to pass this most recent border bill. But in talking about it, he pulled out the pin that Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Green had given him when he entered the chamber, it had Lincoln Riley's name on it. And I wonder if in that moment it was actually Congresswoman Green who came away with the win there, because you could see her say to him from across the room as he was speaking, you let them in, meaning the undocumented migrants, one of whom is accused of killing. Lincoln Riley, the 22 year old nursing student in Georgia, what did you make of that moment? It was pretty intense. Yeah, look, border security immigration, that is the biggest vulnerability for President Biden. The fact that he sort of mangled her name, it was sort of fumbling along with trying to respond to Marjorie Taylor Green in real time during that moment. I'm not sure how that played to the average American voter who is concerned about the state of immigration and the fact that there are a lot of illegal immigrants that have just been flooded across the border and straining social services in a lot of communities across the country. You know, I think that Biden also had a really good moment on immigration where he outlined the bipartisan, or at least what was an originally bipartisan deal that James Langford, the Republican Senator from Oklahoma helped negotiate. Yeah. All the provisions in there that would help deal with border security, hardware judges to handle a lot of these cases. And Langford was seen on television saying, hey, it's true. That's true. That's right. That was right. And that was a powerful moment. And I think you could, would be surprised if you see that footage in a campaign ad for the Biden reelection campaign, for the Biden reelection. So border security is going to be a vulnerability for this White House. I'd only visited the US Mexico border for the second time and his entire presidency this month. The following Trump, they are being very reactive to the issue. But it's one that, you know, the Republicans biggest enemy, sometimes themselves. And the fact that they couldn't say yes to a deal that was frankly the most conservative immigration bill that had bipartisan support. I can remember in my time covering Congress. Finally, Josh, we heard from Katie Britt, Jr. Senator from Alabama for the Republican response. We talked about, but we've heard from a lot of Republicans about Biden's failures or they're perceived what they perceive as Biden's failures, having to with crime, the economy, inflation. But she is from Alabama and the state did just grapple with a court ruling that said frozen embryos for IVF can be considered children. I wondered, did you expect her to maybe talk more about women's reproductive issues? Or is that maybe for a later date? And she was just sort of setting the stage for high. I'm Katie Britt and you're going to hear more from me. Yeah, no, I look at the IVF ruling from the Alabama Supreme Court has been a political vulnerability for Republicans ever since the ruling came down. And even some of the more pro-life conservative Republican lawmakers have been distancing themselves from the decision. And even Alabama, the state legislature changed its law to ensure that those protections would remain even despite the ruling in the state. So she was not going to lean into, I think, what was becoming a problematic issue for the party, even for folks who are pro-life conservatives. But she, you know, look, I think she was on the national stage for the first time. She's on the list, as I've heard, to be Donald Trump's running mate. And I think this was her moment to see whether she could shine. I thought, you know, she had her moments, I think. These are never easy addresses to give as the response, the person responding to the president. And I can't think of many people who have done well with it. She was very dramatic. She hit all the high points on policy. But I think a lot of people might remember her more dramatic delivery as if they do remember anything from this state of the union response. And ultimately, look, I think, you know, I don't think she, I don't know if the needle got moved in any direction in so far as Trump's consideration of her as a vice presidential prospect. Very interesting. Fox News Radio political analyst, Josh Kelsar. Thanks so much for joining us. And thank you, Jared, Fox News Radio, Washington DC correspondent. Thanks, gentlemen. Thanks, Jess. Thanks, Jess. This is Jimmy Fala, inviting you to join me for Fox Across America. We'll discuss every single one of the Democrats' dumb ideas. Just kidding. It's only a three hour show. Five at noon Eastern or get the podcast at Fox Across America dot com. I'm Dana Perino. Join me for my brand new podcast, Perino on Politics. As we analyze the 2024 election cycle, make sure you subscribe to this series on Fox News Podcast dot com or wherever you download podcasts and leave me a rating and review. This is Kennedy with your Fox News commentary coming up. The 96th Academy Awards ceremony Sunday night. The number one box office movie last year, Barbie is one of the 10 best picture nominees. Hey, Barbie. Can I come to your house today? Sure. I don't have anything to play on just a giant blowout party with all the Barbies and plant choreography and a bespoke song. You should stop by. Ryan Gosling's up for best actor as Ken and tells Fox after making the movie. And now, Ken, her G is something you can't help but see. It came out of the same day as Oppenheimer about the development of the atomic bomb. Are we saying there's a chance that when we push that button, we destroy the world. Chances are near zero. Near zero. What do you want? What's here? You've loan zero would be nice. Director Christopher Nolan tells Fox. I know of no story as dramatic as the real life tale of Oppenheimer. He's involvement with the Manhattan Project in this crazy desperate race against the Nazis to harness the power of the atom for the first time. And where that led and how that defined the world we live in. No one's expected to win best director Oppenheimer's expected to win best picture. I mean, Oppenheimer seems to be the bomb, right? Sorry for the calm. John Jurgen sends a reporter on the style news desk at the Wall Street Journal. It's the rare movie that dominated the box office and also had all the critics swimming and kind of also falls into that historical epic that Oscar voters loved so much. So it does seem pretty much a lot for the big one, but you never know. Look, a lot of great performances, Kellyan Murphy, obviously is the odds on favor to be best actor, Robert County Jr. Best supporting actor and just a lot of stars, a lot of great performances in there. And just again, a big story, a big spectacle. Let's go through the big awards and you can talk about whatever you want. You can say what you think will win, what you think should win, whatever. Best picture. We've pretty much covered director, I guess, Chris Nolan for Oppenheimer. Yeah, it seems like it's his year. He has been nominated before in this category for Doug Kirk and he's been nominated for other Oscars as well, but he's never won. He's always seemed like a bit of an outsider sometimes when you think about the Oscar establishment, but it does seem like this is the one it's going to be for him. It seems to have this venn diagram of quality and history and just sort of technical achievement. He's been able to marshal. And as you said, talk about sort of like a small army of amazing stars in this picture as well. Best picture, best director, Killian Murphy is going to win, I suppose. Has Robert Downey Jr. ever won an Oscar for acting? It does seem like the consummate Hollywood guy seems to be the one that's going to take the trophy this year. The acting awards, there does seem to be a bit of a horse race if you buy into the pundits predictions for best actress between Emma Stone and Lily Gladstone for killers of the flower moon. I mean, they've been sort of mech and mech all season for award season and those two really seem like the ones that everyone's like I am the closest. I mean, both like wildly different films, right? Yeah, poor things, right? Sort of a Frankenstein story. Yeah, it's like a Frankenstein beats Barbie type story. And of course, Killian the Flower Moon is, you know, about this super heavy chapter in American history and Lily Gladstone, you know, would be the first indigenous woman to win this award. So that also adds some some gravity to it. So it's kind of going to be, I guess it seems like what what Oscar voters seem like they want to reward. I mean, Emma Stone has seems like she's building this kind of career. It has, you know, been an Oscar race before too. So that could be part of it, you know, who knows though? It's like think about a netbedding, you know, Hollywood. She was nominated for the biopic Nia, like, you know, consummate Hollywood legend there. So you never know things like that could be like a spoiler type thing, but it does seem like Lily Gladstone and Emma are the ones to watch. But I'm going to guess that Lily's going to take it all. She won the Screen Actors Guild Award and that seems to be a good indicator since the, you know, actors have such a huge emphasis on the voting era. I think it's going to be really. Yeah, we talk about precursor awards, we're essentially the same voting bodies are, you know, like the acting awards, the director's guild awards, the whatever awards. It would make sense that would follow that those same people would win, the same winners would win at the Oscars too. Screenplay awards, anything else we should go through? You look at like the supporting roles for actors, you know, we mentioned Robert Downing Jr. likely a lot. I mean, I think the other one, of course, that does seem like a lot, but I think it would be, you know, one people are going to really support is to find Joy Randolph for the holdovers. I mean, she has just been sort of on fire throughout the award season too. And, you know, the holdovers are one of those Oscar movies that I think voters really like. It's kind of like a throwback film and, you know, feel good film and amazing scene if you know, the Paul Jimi audience becomes the dark horse to win over Killian Murphy or something. That would be a surprise, but the vine joy Randolph does seem like the one who's going to at least, you know, from a percentage standpoint, it seems to be the one that represents that film on the stage on that. Yeah. And I didn't not mention her out of disrespect. I think I just, it slipped my mind because it was, it seems like such a foregone conclusion that I, that I skipped over it. Let's talk about the business a little since you write about the business a little. Are we in sort of a reset time? The Oscars are time to celebrate the movies, but looking past that, production was set down, shut down for six months by the writer's strike and the actor's strikes. Where are we with that? Have movies been held back a while while production cats up is everything back to speed? Yeah, I mean, I think it's the Oscars are as great lens, you know, not only the celebrity and glitz get us watching, but it offers a moment of sort of retrospect. Looking at the business, you know, what happened the year before, almost going to happen ahead, I think the whole barbenheimer phenomenon, which was, you know, massive and really sort of a great thing to celebrate, also kind of hides the fact that things are in kind of scary tape right now in Hollywood. You mentioned the actor's strike, the writer's strike that shut down the business for, you know, much of the year last year. That essentially kind of emptied the pipeline or at least pushed things back in the pipeline, which are real deficit of big films coming. But more than that, it's like this kind of moment of like what are we doing in Hollywood? You know, spy the superhero genre is spiraling. It remains we seeing if that can kind of like climb back up to the heights that once had. And also just because of the greater nervousness in the business, you know, these major entertainment conglomerates are very worried about where their money is going to be coming from as they're, you know, streaming platforms, stumble and sputter. And so that has put a lot of pressure on budgets across the board. So if it's harder to get things greenlit and things have to be sort of like a super package to get a greenlight from studios in the way that, you know, maybe a few years ago, they would have, you know, this is happening at a TV part and also in the film part as well too. So, you know, I think people are very concerned about what the year is going to hold. And it's easy to kind of hold onto these hits like, you know, the performance of the second dude that just came out and did quite well. But you look down the calendar and what else is coming out this year and it doesn't necessarily build that well for, I guess, Hollywood's complete bottom line. Yeah. And there have been maybe not bomb bombs, but certainly the Marvel movies, the, the bloom is off the rose there. Those movies for a lot of people are now feeling like homework instead of, you know, a fun thing to go do with the movies every six months or a year or whatever they come out. Some of the Disney movies have not done as well as they would have liked recently. And I wonder if, like you said, studios, including, well, maybe there's an opportunity for an Apple or an Netflix or an Amazon to jump in more, but are the other studios, the legacy studios going to be holding onto their wallets a little bit until things shake out. Yeah, I think that's the case. And in the meantime, they're still, you know, hanging their hats on the power of the franchise and, and, you know, that's been sort of a constant conversation in and around the business for so long. Definitely to be going anywhere. I mean, look down the line this year, you know, is Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes going to get people excited, you know, another Kingdom of the Planet of the Ace is another Godzilla movie going to get people excited. On one hand, you know, Barb and Hymer released Barbie, you know, showed the power IP. Like you could do something really creative with it, and you can do something that turns into, you know, the biggest movie in the world. But that's, doesn't mean that, you know, every, every IP movie that comes down the road is going to be like that. I mean, in case it actually, you know, it's newly the opposite. The formula, the formula is exposed in the formula tends to wear a thin too. So, I mean, on the plus side, you know, I feel like it was a good year for films. I mean, Barb and Hymer, I don't dominate the conversation, but if you run down the list of best picture nominees, you know, it's a pretty solid list, even though, you know, a lot of regular moviegoers probably haven't seen these films. You know, when you get down to things like the Zone of Interest and American Fiction and things like that, the reality is that, like, on a creative level, it's a strong showing for the best picture nominee, at least that part of it gives people a reason to celebrate. And if Barbie makes, you know, younger people tune in, then all the better. Yeah. I wonder if, so it was going to the movies. It's not going anywhere necessarily, but just, you know, just make that aspect of it will make less money for everyone. It'll be there for real fans of going to the movies, people who want to see something like anatomy of a fall or the Zone of Interest or past lives at a movie theater. But otherwise, I wonder if those medium-sized, grown-up movies really just find their audiences on streaming now. Yeah. And, you know, depending where you sit, you know, literally where you sit, whether you want to sit in that theater or you want to sit at home, I mean, it puts consumers in the driver's seat. Like, that gives consumers the ultimate control. So, I think it's an interesting case when you look at this crop of, you know, if you always take the best picture category as like a petri dish of like, you know, a, or a, I guess, a cross-section of Hollywood right now. And you've got the mega mega theatrical blockbusters like Barbie and Oppenheimer. And then you have the ones down the list that people probably saw in their living rooms too. And I think that's sort of a, you know, a healthy, a healthy way to think about it from the consumer point of view. But it does not help the studios and the entertainment major entertainment companies trying to figure out how to make a buck out of this because not only are the theatrical films hard to bet on their streaming platforms, unless, you know, other than Netflix are struggling in a lot of ways too. And they're also trying to figure out, you know, what's working on streaming platform too. So, I mean, just funny. It's like it's, you know, generally, anytime you talk about this, this kind of question, it's glass half full, glass half empty and depending on which part of the business you're, looking at it from determines the answer to your question. But, you know, there's a lot of movies out there and there's a lot of ways to watch them that just matter making stuff, the regular movie viewers are there enough to click on or buy that ticket for them. Yeah, and I've got, look, I've got a lot of movies from last year that I didn't get around to that I might not have ever gotten around to. But now I can't, you know, however I want to do it. John Juergenson reporter on the town news desk at the washroom journal. John, thanks. My pleasure. Thanks so much. And now some good news with Tanya J powers. Faith snaps that she's always loved animals. She told Fox 26 Houston that her family has raised horses and goats, quote, as long as I can remember. So it makes sense that she'd pursue a career as a vet. Snap, who is 22 is legally blind, but hasn't let that slower down when chasing her dreams. She's been accepted into the Texas Tech University School of Veterinary Medicine. She says she and her twin brother were both born prematurely with limited vision. Snap has had a guide dog since high school and even worked at local animal clinics. She begins classes in August in hopes to pursue a career working as a mixed animal veterinarian, treating both large and small animals. Snap says she wants to remind people that no matter what challenge a person is facing, they should not give up on their dreams. She says, quote, anything is possible. Tanya J powers Fox News. Fox News Podcasts dot com. Subscribe to this podcast at Fox news podcast dot com. Fox News Podcasts dot com. Fox News Podcasts dot com. Fox News Podcasts dot com. Amp their foot assuming that everyone else is going to be in lockstep agreement with them because their grievance is the most important one that's ever been raised in our court of opinion. Well, that is not the case and they are doing a bad job at Kellogg of responding to the firestorm. They immediately should have rolled out cereal for dinner commercials. That would have been great showing people how to add cereal into a lovely balanced family meal that brings everyone together because everyone loves cereal. You can be lactose intolerant and still find ways to love cereal. You can have celiac disease like me and still find ways to love your breakfast treat at an inappropriate time of day. We all remember having breakfast for dinner as kids and it felt like we were breaking some rule like we were thumbing our nose at the great authoritarian figure in the sky, but you're not. You're just giving your body what it wants at a time when it really needs it and sure Kellogg's and other companies may be guilty of shrink flation meaning they have the same size packaging with fewer contents inside. They can remedy that themselves. But this one is actually a win for consumers and manufacturers alike in order to celebrate. I think tonight you should have cereal for dinner, but instead of milk, baby, just drown in champagne and toast yourself for having such a great idea. I'm going to have more on this in a longer format on my podcast Kennedy saves the world. You can find me at Fox News podcast dot com as always. This is Kennedy with your Fox News commentary. Howdy Podcast former federal prosecutor and four-term US Congressman from South Carolina brings you a one-of-a-kind podcast. Subscribe and listen now by going to Fox News podcasts dot com.