 This episode is brought to you by Kia's first three-roll, all-electric SUV, the Kia EV9, with available all-wheel drive and seating for up to seven adults, with zero to 60 speed that thrills you one minute and available lounge seats that unwind you the next. Visit Kia.com slash EV9 to learn more. Ask your Kia dealer for availability. No system, no matter how advanced, can compensate for all driver error and or driving conditions, always drive safely. Saturday, March 9th, 2024, I'm Jessica Rosenthal. A Supreme Court ruling this past week keeps former president Trump on the ballot. But will the justice aside with him in a future case, as the docket fills up with potential blockbusters this election year? If the court does something super narrow about immunity, there's a chance that something not completely terrible happens for the Trump legal team. I'm Jared Halpern. One of the most popular apps on the planet is closer to being banned in the US by Congress. We're told that high schoolers and middle schoolers were lighting up the phone lines on Capitol Hill because they were afraid they're going to get rid of Tik Toket. This is The Fox News rundown from Washington. Former president Trump will remain on the ballots and states across the country. After the Supreme Court ruled that Colorado cannot kick him off. I think it will go a long way toward bringing our country together, which our country needs. Colorado Secretary of State, Jenna Grisbal, told Fox affiliate KDVR, she was disappointed in the Supreme Court's ruling. Do believe that states have the ability under section three of the 14th amendment to decide to not put on our ballots, oath breaking insurrectionists? United States Supreme Court disagrees with that and says Congress has to act first. Congress has to pass some type of law allowing section three of the 14th amendment to be applied. After the decision, the former president complimented the justices and said that their next battle has to do with his belief that he should not be able to be prosecuted in his federal case involving January 6th and the 2020 election. He's charged with conspiracy to defraud the US and obstructing an official proceeding among other things. If a president doesn't have full immunity, you really don't have a president because nobody that is serving in that office will have the courage to make in many cases what would be the right decision or it could be the wrong decision. It could be in some cases the wrong decision, but they have to make decisions. Either way, the court isn't hearing that case until April and likely won't decide it until June, pushing a possible trial well into the year. Still this week, the president went in to Super Tuesday knowing his name would be on ballots across the country this election year. It did. And Jessica, can you believe that was this week? Shannon Bream is the host of Fox News Sunday. I feel like there have been 5,000 news cycles since that was just Monday when he had that big win at the Supreme Court, all states. And then there was someone noticed that while justices, so to my orc, Kagan and brown Jackson agreed Colorado should not get to kick Trump off the ballot. There was like a bit of a descent within the concurrence that said this ruling still went like too far. It addressed too much. Can you explain that? Yeah. And I had to, so this was a percurium opinion, meaning it speaks for the court. Essentially, everybody signs on to it. There's not an author, but there were these other concurrences that very much read like a descent, at least the one from the three justices that you mentioned. So to my or Jackson and Kagan, and it essentially said the main opinion went too far in directing Congress, how it should address this problem. What the limits would be on Congress and doing this. They felt like we agree with the bottom line question that Colorado couldn't do this and by extension, any state, but they didn't like that the court went into answering all of these other questions and giving Congress direct guidance on how they think they should solve the problem. So they thought those questions were to be left for another day. And it was an overreach by the what essentially was the majority opinion? Yeah. What was an example of like going to like, what did they address essentially that they that those three justices said, you shouldn't have gone there yet. So section three of the 14th amendment is the one that has the language about, if you've taken a note, if you've participated in an insurrection, but section five goes on to say that Congress is really the one that has to put together the teeth for enforcing these things. And so while states felt like in states like Colorado argued it was quote unquote self executing meaning what they laid out in section three means the states can jump in and be the ones to enforce it. What the court did was go on to say, Hey, listen, this is really left a Congress under section five. And there are limits on how they can do that. It's got to be narrowly tailored to the specific issue. I think there was so much instructional language there that the three concurrence folks who much again read like a dissent felt like it just went way beyond where this case needed to go. And they prefer what they argued is the historical guidepost of the court is that they most narrowly tailor their opinions and don't answer questions they don't need to get into answering. Interesting. After this ruling, Trump was very complimentary of the court. I wonder how long that might last though because the court has agreed to consider this fight over presidential immunity in the January six case. And just so everybody just for a reminder, he's charged there with conspiracy to defraud the US witness tampering conspiracy against the rights of citizens and obstruction of an attempt to obstruct an official proceeding. What will the justice is consider here narrowly? I guess when it comes to presidential immunity, like how far it extends essentially. Yeah. And you make such a great point because yes, President Trump had a ton of praise all caps. You know, like he likes to do. On Monday, I have a feeling that come June. It's going to be tempered. Now listen, if the court does something super narrow about immunity, there's a chance that something not completely terrible happens for the Trump legal team. But most folks look at the decision you got from the lower court, that three judge panel from the DC circuit that was 57 pages. It too was per Curia, meaning we're all in agreement sweeping saying that, you know, there are absolutely limits to immunity. For any president, you can't have somebody committing crimes, things that we would all know and recognize as such and just never be prosecuted because they happen to be president at one point. So I think it's going to be a much tougher fight at the Supreme Court. It is not going to be a 90 we all are cum by our Colorado ballot decision. But I think the court is really going to dig into this question and remember, special counsel Jack Smith in a filing back in December when he wanted the Supreme Court to hear the case said they were the only ones who could resolve a question of this import. Now after he got that great ruling from the DC circuit, basically told the Supreme Court like, okay, it settled. You don't need to get involved because the whole win for the Trump team is the delay to that Jack Smith trial, which was supposed to start last Monday. So even if president Trump ultimately isn't successful on the immunity argument, it's already a huge win for his team because it presses this trial likely closer to an August, September, even October start, if that's where it goes. And this was the case where one of the appellate justices right had said that it made it was quite incendiary at the time, claim like if a president like killed somebody, then you know, we'd be talking about does the president have immunity like no, there has to be a line, right? Is that right? Sort of that that was this. Yeah, during the oral arguments, there was a lot of pushback with these hypotheticals. Well, what about this? What about killing a person? What are doing, you know, and it made for some really awkward tough moments and arguments for the Trump legal team? Because I think everybody agrees there's gotta be some kind of limit on that. Now what president Trump will regularly say and his legal team says in their filings as well is it would essentially handcuff a president. A president can't be worried about carrying a drone strike or something involving a foreign leader or a threat because if so, president Trump said last week, it would turn into a ceremonial office. I think he said that this week again, the weeks are all blurring together. But he has said similar things in the past and talked about the fact that a president has to be free to make really difficult decisions without being worried that at some point, it would be turned into a criminal prosecution against him. And he argues that any president should be worried about that D or R behind their name because it's a dangerous precedent to set. So there's a lot for the Supreme Court to chew on. They will do that on April 25th. Okay. And now let's move away a little bit from from the Trump train because the Supreme Court also this week temporarily stopped the implementation of a Texas law that led state law enforcement handle border matters by arresting migrants who are undocumented. Is the problem here? The Immigration and Nationality Act is the law on this that such immigration matters are really under federal jurisdiction and Congress has already regulated that. I mean, that's always been the precedent. I remember covering Arizona's SB 1070 years ago. It was one of the papers law. I mean, it was one of the most rambunctious, raucous crowds. I've seen it. The court and I've seen them there for, you know, a portion in ACA and for same sex marriage and all kinds of things that have been very heated. But that one was especially crazy with then Governor James Brewer. I remember she got hit in the head by something outside of the court. I think, but it was just there was a lot jostling and craziness. And listen, the court basically said there we get your frustration. We get what you're doing, Arizona. But this is something that is left to the feds and that is precedent. That's constitutional. That's where it sits. Of course, the states now argue they are not doing what they're supposed to do. They're not enforcing the law. We have a right to defend ourselves and our borders, essentially, if the feds aren't doing it. So Arizona tried that argument. Things have changed. The court makeup has changed. We'll see. But for now, that that law is on hold while there's an emergency issue pending. The folks involved in the case haven't until I believe it is Wednesday to file their responses. And then the court will make a decision whether they're going to do something on an emergency basis while the case plays out on the actual merits. All right. We just have a couple minutes left, Shannon. Let's do a little bit of a lightning round brief understanding of a few more cases, the stakes. Justice will hear a case about an abortion drug. If a Pristone FDA approved, but a lower court judge took issue with the approval process for that drug arguments March 26th. What's it? Stay here. Yes. So you're not going to lose access to that drug, even if there is a losing argument to those who back it. It's essentially about the rollbacks to a couple of things about having to see a doctor in person, how late into a pregnancy it can be used. So the pill itself will remain out there and available, but there may be restrictions on access to it. If you know, the court rules in favor of those who are challenging that. And January 6th protesters, there's a case regarding whether or not they were improperly charged with obstructing official proceedings arguments are to be heard in mid-April. I imagine that sort of discussion in an election year with Trump on the ballot could generate a lot of interest. Yeah. And it could impact, you know, hundreds potentially of J6 defendants and it could impact President Trump's case that Jack Smith has pending against him because the charge they were looking at obstruction of an official proceeding. If they toss that, that's one of the charges that Smith has against Trump could impact his case too. And lastly, emergency room abortions. If a woman's life is in danger and she arrives at the ER and an abortion is required to save her life, would doctors be in trouble for performing that in states with strict abortion laws arguments to be heard in late April. That could be I imagine a pretty important case as well. Yeah, that's a really tricky one because states after the overturning of Roe v Wade made a lot of different decisions about how far or if at all into a pregnancy, they will allow abortions. There are folks that argue this guidance that came out from the Biden administration about how they have to operate in emergency rooms, emergency settings could force doctors who have conscience protections into performing an abortion they don't want to be involved with. So you got the state laws and conflict with the federal guidance from the Biden administration. Again, that means you've got two abortion cases that will likely land in June with a decision and that will be very important on the campaign trail in the middle of an election year. Shannon Bream, your mind is amazing. Thank you so much. Jessica, great stock with you. I'm Guy Benson. Joining the weekdays at 3 p.m. Eastern as we break down the biggest stories of the day with some of the biggest newsmakers and guests. Listen live on the Fox News app or get the free podcast at Guy Benson Show dot com. The youth of America were often said to be apathetic, politically unengaged in the process. Now whether or not that's a fair description, this week certainly showed that when the right issue pops, they'll make their voices heard. Congressional offices have been bombarded with phone calls from young Americans, middle schoolers and teenagers over legislation that could block TikTok one of the most popular social media apps in the country from US networks. The House Energy and Commerce Committee voted 50 to nothing to advance a bill that would require TikTok to divest from its Chinese own developer or be prohibited in the United States. National security officials raise concerns about TikTok warning for an adversaries can use the app to surveil Americans and collect an awful lot of intelligence. Federal employees are not allowed to download the app on government devices. Fox News senior congressional correspondent Chad Pergram has been following the story, the legislation, the outcry and the potential challenges ahead for lawmakers. Well, Jared, as I say, TikTok boom, uh, 50 to nothing, as you say, in the Energy and Commerce Committee, they passed this bill, Steve Scalise, the majority leader says they're going to put it on the floor in the coming days. The reason that this is moving so quickly is that there's a real concern that TikTok is just scraping up inordinate amounts of information about Americans tracking where you go, uh, using this for nefarious purposes and even the outcry about this piece of legislation, those who are the backers of the legislation said this kind of underscores what we were talking about. Uh, the bill basically says that TikTok cannot operate in the United States unless it divests itself from bite dance, which is its Chinese quasi-government, uh, owner, and says, okay, you can't live on platforms or app stores here in the US. It has to be an independent thing away from bite dance. Uh, that's the problem. So, uh, they say this is not a ban on TikTok. That's something that TikTok, uh, takes issue with. They're saying that this is going to undercut the first amendment. So back to my point about why, uh, this kind of underscores the problem, you know, when, when you have, uh, Democrats and Republicans concerned about TikTok living on everyone's phones as a national security issue is that there was a, uh, a, a, a little, uh, prompt you could go to on TikTok once you heard about this. And if it's anything that's amazing, we're told that high schoolers and middle schoolers were lighting up the phone lines on Capitol Hill because they were afraid they're going to get rid of TikTok and calling, no less, calling minds, uh, middle schoolers. TikTok is, yeah, I was going to, I'm not on TikTok, uh, but man, I have a, a young son and a lot of his friends, I mean, I've seen the dances and everything. It's kind of a silly app in that regard, but there is to your point of concern that this is being used for nefarious purposes. And even President Biden, the White House has said, you know, we'll sign it. This has been negotiated by Congress. Talk to me about though those first amendment concerns. I mean, is there much precedent for the United States telling a private company to divest or face consequences? Well, think about this with the bells, you know, back in the early 80s or even, you know, with the forming of some of the, the big trust companies in the early part of the 20th century. Okay. So there's a little bit of precedent there. Uh, the difference here is that you have something that's foreign owned and is a national security concern that they are sucking up all of your information and following where you go. And this is where you had some of the Democrats and Republicans, especially Dan Crenshaw, who's Republican from Texas. He said, look at the outcry over this app, uh, people calling Capitol Hill. He said is that they have been a nerd to what's going on. And therefore, they're so upset. They're so obsessed with this, uh, app. It's like it's a drug, uh, which is exactly what, what they're concerned about. Uh, and you allude to, you know, somebody in your family or whatnot, you know, they love TikTok. They love being on it. He said, well, what, what point does China start to really make this kind of a psychological operation and go after people in that sense and kind of try to change public opinion? Uh, then they've won because they've won the hearts and minds. And the most interesting thing I find about TikTok here, Jared, is that if you look at TikTok in China and you're a kid, oh, it's very different. Only for it, you can only spend 40 minutes a day on it. Number one, they show you science and nature and educational videos and things of things with that sort. And it's silly. Unless they're scientifically, you know, dealing with a dance move or something, perhaps. But no, but that's the thing is that this is, this is programmed very differently in the people's Republic of China. So, you know, it brings up a lot of interesting points. I guess, you know, the house says to your point, they're going to vote on this in a matter of days. The Senate expect, I mean, this has supported in the Senate as well. Unclear. I mean, this is something that has been mostly a house project and you know, the pace that which things go around here on Capitol Hill, Jared. This one's moving fast. The fact that this kind of came out of nowhere just a few days ago, went through committee. They would still have to mark it up in committee and then put it on the floor in Steve Scolise, as I said, wants to put this on the floor at the end of next week. That's really fast. I mean, that is lightning speed here on Capitol Hill. The Senate, though, if they get a wide bipartisan margin, though, they might say, yeah, we have to put this on. I mean, there's no divide between the House and the Senate in terms of of the concerns there. I mean, Josh Hawley, the Republican Center from Missouri, he has expressed a lot of concerns about Tik Tokka for one. He's been very outspoken on that score. There are going to be some, a little more reservation from some members, frankly, because they're going to say, wait a minute, should we be stepping on an entire industry or a particular company? And you get into some of that, you know, there's some Supreme Court cases that deal with that and what the, you know, as I say, trusts and you go back to one of the most famous Supreme Court cases of all time, colloquially referred to as Youngstown Steel, which was the threat of the federal government dealing with the, you know, the steel industry in Northeastern Ohio back in the 1950s. So, yes, they will take a little more time with it, but there is concern in the Senate about the national security implications of Tik Tok too. Well, in listen, we've heard those national security concerns here at the White House that the national security advisor has talked about it at the national security council has talked about it, but at the same time, you know, the Biden campaign has faced some criticism because they are new to Tik Tok. They joined Tik Tok within the last couple of weeks. It is raised questions about, well, why is the White House on one hand raising all of these concerns and telling Americans not to be on this platform and the campaign is and the campaign says this and we're going to talk to people where they are. There are a lot of people chat on Tik Tok. They are younger, a group of voters or potential voters that a lot of politicians would love to reach. Are we going to see some of that calls of hypocrisy with some of these congressional and Senate campaigns? It's almost as though they are talking out of two sides of their mouth. I mean, Katie Britt, the Republican Center from Alabama, who spoke and gave a response to the president's address alluded to this in her comments the other night. I ask Roger Christian Amorthi, Democrat from Illinois, who is the top Democrat on the China Committee and one of the most ardent advocates of this bill, same question. And he said, I'm not going to tell them how to run their campaign. He said, but they should be very careful in using this. So I do think that there's a little bit of a difference here when it comes to national security and what the administration is hoping to do and what they're doing as it pertains to campaigning because again, you know, you would be foolish in some sense if you're if you're Joe Biden and you're the oldest president ever and you're trying to reach young voters, well, where would you go? You meet them where they are. That's right. That's Tik Tok. And that's the constantly face. Well, in they are younger, you talked about sort of high school and middle school kids calling members of Congress. Calling. Sure. Yeah, that's not sending text or DMs, but I am curious, I guess, that's not a constituency that obviously votes is not always really represented. I am just curious kind of from like the political science symposium perspective. If we were talking about an app that we're used by adults more than teens and tweens, would this be sailing through Congress in the way that it is now? Well, think about regulation for other things. Think about like tobacco products, alcohol. Tobacco is probably a really good one. Alcohol, a really good one if you look at historically what we did with prohibition here, you know, more than 100 years ago and then repealing that less than 100 years ago. That was mainly an adult product. Okay. Certainly with smoking, the idea that they didn't want to outlaw smoking and tobacco products and that's where they you know, they banned advertising on television effectively. And because there were some first amendment issues that they said, okay, can still advertise in magazines and so on and so forth. Of course, we had the big tobacco settlement in the 1990s, late 1990s, 1997 that started to change some of that. But plaster on every time you would have an ad or a cigarette pack, you know, these very stark warnings. You know, the surge in general has deemed that consumption of this product is smoking as cigarettes is dangerous to your health or you know, that's where I mean very straight. You didn't see that on any other product and it didn't completely inhibit people from smoking, frankly. So, you know, and some people might even make the argument about the the lure and the addictive quality of it. You know, maybe, you know, I haven't heard him, I say this, but you know, there is digital nicotine in TikTok. Absolutely. It's a good point and it's a fascinating thing is I know Congress is kind of wrestling with this space. I think it's kind of part of the AI conversation. We've certainly seen the heads of social media companies have to testify in front of Congress. So, this is a space that the Congress is certainly trying to, I think, find its foothold and find where they kind of play a role. It will be a fascinating debate, I think, to watch moving forward because the year point 50 to nothing in a committee does not happen every day in this House of Representatives. As we talk about the House of Representatives, another thing to talk about chat is, you know, government funding. I was surprised to see how quickly this, I guess we're calling it a mini bus, this package of appropriations bills kind of started to work its way through. Can everybody breathe these? Can everybody breathe easy now? Are we done with CRs for a little bit now? Or is this about the rear? It's ugly head right in the heart of an election season. As we speak right now, we are not completely out of the woods. The House of Representatives moved very quickly. The Senate is still trying to wrestle and figure out how to proceed and finish this up. So, that's a big question. So, you know, there is a threat of a partial government shutdown. They thought they might be able to come to an agreement quickly on Friday that did not necessarily, you know, happen. But the fact that the House was able to move this with, you know, more than 300 votes. And again, and again, and again, they did it with way more Democrats than Republicans, but yet these conservatives are willing to say, you know, we don't like what you're doing. They're Mike Johnson, but we're okay with you. We weren't okay when Kevin McCarthy did one intro spending bill. You've now done three of the questions. I mean, that's my question. I mean, this is to your point, this mini bust that this, you know, kind of putting together a bunch of appropriations bills got a lot of support from Democrats. What does that mean for Mike Johnson? Well, that's the problem right there is that at some point that chicken is going to come home to roost because he cannot continue to talk a good game and say, this is what we're doing and we're getting somewhere. They got some minimal cuts. They got a few things they wanted. You know, both sides were probably pleased with what they got, but you have just this core of conservatives who just don't like to spend any might want to go back to a couple of years before and the policy writers that they'd like to see. I don't know that any of those bills could pass. They can talk about them a lot, but they don't have the votes. Why? Because guess what? It's about the math. Mike Johnson does not have math in his favor right now when it pertains to these votes. And even though there's been some sweating of the palms about getting the government funded this weekend, I think I would look really deeply at that deadline for the next miniboss. This is a tranche of six bills here. There are six remaining outstanding appropriations bills that they need to do by the 22nd of March. Those are more nettlesome dealing with the Department of Labor, labor H as we call it, labor health and human services, the Pentagon, DHS, boy, that's going to be a monster right there. And to get this all done before the 22nd of December, and part of the reason we saw this clash and slow down in the Senate speaks to why we might have the risk of a shutdown then, is because you might be able to get a bill that moves through the House with again lots of Democrats and some Republicans. And Mike Johnson might be able to weather that storm again, but again, to do it in that period of time and get it across the finish line by the 22nd of March, when you have these conservatives who are now emboldened. You see, here's the new factor that nobody's thought about yet. You had these other conservatives who were willing to say, okay, we don't like these bills, but give us these votes on these amendments in the Senate and we'll subject them to 60 vote thresholds and we'll stretch things out a couple of days, but we'll go home by Friday and everything will be funded. The difference now is that Mitch McConnell has announced that he's out the door and you have people wanting to move into leadership, move into his position. Rick Scott, Republican from Florida has been posturing on this, has not committed to run for leader. There's been some chatter about Steve Daines, Republican from Montana to say nothing of the kind of declared candidates here, John Thune, the whip and John Corden, the former whip. So that's the factor that might be making this more troublesome on the minibus here, the first minibus in the Senate, compared to if they try to do the second one, because the McConnell factor has changed. The tectonic plates have shifted a bit in the Senate, Jared. Let me finish with this and it's a state of the union question. How was your reunion with expelled congressmen and I guess now congressional candidate George Santos? What was the reaction from his former colleagues? Well, I was shocked. I was cutting through a tunnel here at the Capitol going downstairs not long before the speech and here he came and on one hand, I was very surprised to see him and on another, I was not because he's George Santos and people said, well, how can he come back? Well, we've only expelled six house members in history, six and three of them were around the time of the Civil War. One in 1980s, one about 22 years ago now, Jim Traffkin from Ohio. Traffkin's dead, Ozzy Myers and Pennsylvania, he's still around, actually had legal issues again in his 80s just last year. So it's kind of uncharted territory about what you do with an expelled member. These Confederate members, they expelled back during the Civil War, they ain't around anymore. So George Santos had barely been a member, not even a year, but former members have the ability to have floor privileges to come into the building. They have that, you know, all their life. And so if you've retired or you've quit or whatever, you just didn't run for reelection or you were defeated, you can come back into the building and regularly you see people, especially around big events. I saw Mike Ross, who is a former Democratic representative from Arkansas the other day up here for state of the Union. You know, there were a couple other four because they came in for the speech or they have other business or they just come to say hi. So Santos, this was a little bit different coming into the building. He was definitely here to troll his colleagues. The fact that he could do it and do it on a big stage, state of the Union, command some news, oxygen, we're talking about it. You know, announced during the speech that he was going to run against Nick Lolo, the Republican representative from Long Island, a different discipline. Who was one of those that voted to oust him? Absolutely. And was one of the most fervent persons wanting to get him out. Absolutely. This was a troll job by Santos of the tallest order. Well, it's always interesting to be on Capitol Hill. Maybe no more so than on days where there is a state of the Union to be delivered. So Chad, appreciate the long hours this week. Get some rest this weekend. We'll talk soon, my friend. My pleasure. Thank you. Tomorrow on the Fox News rundown from Washington, President Biden wants to make home ownership a little less costly using the state of the Union address to propose a new tax credit for first time home buyers. We'll talk about that with the chair of the White House Council of Economic Advisors Jared Bernstein and Super Tuesday, all but sealed a 2020 election rematch after near sweeps in the primaries by President Biden and former President Trump. Jessica Rosenthal will discuss that with the host of the Guy Benson Show, Guy Benson. Until then, thanks for listening. I'm Jared Halper. This is the Fox News rundown for on