 Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. The US begins aid air drops over Gaza as the White House ramps up calls for a ceasefire. Plus, could pilotless planes be the future for the US Air Force? Software has created new missions and things that would not be done with piloted aircraft just because it would be too dangerous or frankly break the laws of physics as Scorri would say on Star Trek. And a new journal poll shows Donald Trump remains in a stronger position than President Biden in a likely rematch. It's Monday, March 4th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal and here is the AM edition of What's News, the Top Headlines and Business Stories Moving Your World. Today. We begin in Gaza, where the US began air-dropping humanitarian aid over the weekend, following similar deliveries by Egypt, Jordan and Qatar in recent days. The steps are intended to address an increasingly pressing humanitarian disaster in the Gaza strip, almost five months into the war between Israel and Hamas. Meanwhile, negotiators meeting in Cairo to secure a Gaza truce before the Muslim holy month of Ramadan appear to have hit a roadblock. We are reporting that Israel has agreed to the outlines of a deal, but that Israeli officials are uncertain about Hamas's sincerity to reach an agreement after failing to provide a list of living hostages and their conditions, a demand that mediators say Israel made over the weekend. Speaking yesterday, Vice President Kamala Harris called for an immediate ceasefire. Hamas claims it wants a ceasefire. Well, there is a deal on the tape. And as we have said, Hamas needs to agree to that deal. Let's get a ceasefire. Let's reunite the hostages with their families. And let's provide immediate relief to the people of Gaza. Harris also issued one of the sharpest US rebukes of Israel's bombardment of Gaza, describing conditions there as a humanitarian catastrophe and calling on Israel to significantly increase the flow of aid without excuses. Those comments come as a new journal poll finds US sympathy for Palestinians is growing as the war drags on with a plurality of American voters now saying that Israel has gone too far in responding to the October attacks by Hamas. One in three voters in the new survey also said the US was doing too little to help Palestinians a seven point uptick from December. And we'll have more results from that poll of American voters later in the show. Over to the Republican presidential race now as Nikki Haley has won her first GOP primary in the district of Columbia. That said caucuses in Idaho and Missouri over the weekend saw former President Donald Trump notch a further two wins ahead of Super Tuesday. Among the 15 states casting votes tomorrow is Colorado, which is awaiting a Supreme Court decision as early as today about whether Trump can be removed from the ballot. The Colorado Supreme Court has ruled that the 14th amendment means Trump is disqualified from holding public office again for engaging in insurrection against the US. Trump's legal team has appealed that decision to the Supreme Court, arguing that the former President never participated in or directed any of the illegal conduct that occurred at the Capitol on January 6, 2021. If the Supreme Court rejects Trump's appeal, he could be stripped from the ballot across the country. Japan's Nique has smashed through 40,000 for the first time with the country's benchmark stock index closing half a percent higher today. The rally follows the index hitting an all-time high on February 22, led by a surge in chip stocks. Japanese chipmakers saw gains on Monday mirroring a similarly for chip makers in South Korea. So far this year at the Nique has climbed 20 percent driven by the return of modest inflation, improvements in corporate governance, and a weaker yen. Well, one thing that may push markets to further records is the trajectory of the US economy and not least when the Fed will begin cutting interest rates. This week's jobs report could also be instrumental with the labor market expected to have heated up even further. However, the chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, Lizanne Saunders, told WSJ's Take On The Week podcast that there are some hidden weaknesses in the labor market that could take investors by surprise. The January job report was for the most part positive across most metrics other than another decline in household employment. Now the prior report, even though on the surface it looked okay, the details under the surface were much more negative, including for that December report a huge plunge in household employment. A lot of people might just focus on the headline metrics and not look further from that. There's another survey they conduct which is the household survey and from the household survey the unemployment rate is calculated. And there are times like the last couple of months where you can see pretty meaningful divergence in the case of two months ago, which is a huge huge almost 700 interesting in household employment. And you can hear more from that interview with Lizanne Saunders on the latest episode of WSJ's Take On The Week. The investor group looking to buy beleaguered department store Macy's has increased its offer by nearly a billion dollars. After rejecting a prior proposal of 21 dollars a share back in December, a bid that Macy said failed to provide compelling value to shareholders, real estate investment firm Arcaus Management and Global Asset Manager Brigade Capital Management are now offering $24 per share. Both investors have said they're open to increasing their bid further, but the lack of due diligence and a non-disclosure agreement has so far led Macy's to express doubts about any potential deal. Coming up, a journal poll finds that American voters are shedding some of their pessimism about the state of the economy, but whether they're crediting President Biden for that is another story. We'll crunch the numbers after the break. Hey what's news fans, listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show Ad Free on Amazon Music included with your Prime Membership? That's right, all your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music Ad Free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown, Ad Free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most ad free top podcasts, so we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your Prime Membership. To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free or visit amazon.com-slash-what's-news. That's amazon.com-slash-what's-news. It's just that easy. In the thick of the campaign for the GOP nomination for President and closing in on eight months to go until the general election, a new Wall Street Journal poll has just dropped that shows Donald Trump is in a stronger position than President Biden in a likely rematch. It is a similar result as a prior survey in December, but dig a little deeper beneath the surface and voter sentiment is changing in ways that could define the campaign to come. Editor Aaron Zidner oversees the journal's polling efforts. Aaron, tell us about the foremost issues that voters see defining the race to come. Well, one of the main questions we've had is whether an improving economy would lift the fortunes of President Biden. The economy is getting stronger. All the metrics show it unemployment has been very low. Inflation has moderated. And yet, President Biden is still in a very weak position. Well, in this poll, we find something interesting. Voter reviews of the economy are starting to improve. The share of people who see the economy is doing better than before and is up 10 points. The share to say their own personal findings are doing better is up nine points. So those are comparisons with December. So people are seeing some effect in their own personal lives of an improving economy. And there is some marginal improvement in their views of how President Biden is handling the economy. But you know, it's just not that much improvement. The president is still in a very weak position. The corrosive effects of inflation are still on people's minds. And so we're getting some clues that yes, maybe arising the economy can help the President, but so far not so much. Aaron, I could imagine the White House responding to that saying, all right, we'll just give it six more months. Maybe we'll start to see the Fed cutting interest rates and come election day. This is a stronger issue for us. And yet, I note in the survey that the economy is no longer issue number one for voters. Well, that's exactly the conundrum. This poll is one of the rare cases where something other than the economy is what voters say is most important to their vote. More people by significant numbers say immigration is the top issue on their minds, not the economy. And that's bad news for the President right now because he really gets low marks. And I think it's fair to say failing marks on immigration. 71% of people say that developments in immigration and border security are headed in the wrong direction, not the right direction. And 65% disapproves of the President's handling of immigration. That tells us that it's not just Republicans who are worried about immigration, it's independence and some of them are crats. Aaron, a few other things that jumped out to me from this poll. You've got about the same number of people as late last year that think Biden is too old to run for office. Though the number who think that Trump is too old has gone up by five points. Another thing is that while voters don't seem all that pleased with how Biden is handling immigration or the economy, they don't seem all that happy either with some of Trump's foremost policy proposals, including on health care and forum policy. And then there's the issue that this might not just be a Biden Trump rematch that there could be other candidates on the ballot. Tell us more about what the poll showed in that respect. Well, when you test Trump versus Biden and then you run a ballot that has a green party candidate, a libertarian candidate, an independent migrant and a grubbered candidate and Cornell West. In just about every case Biden bleeds more of his support to those other candidates than Trump does. So in this poll, a two point lead that Trump holds when it's just Trump and Biden on the ballot becomes a five point lead. But and there are two significant bucks here. These candidates, they don't have ballot access in all the states yet. The other caveat is that Robert F. Kennedy, who is the non major party candidate who gets the most support, he gets nine percentage points support in this poll when he's on the ballot with other candidates. There's a chance that he takes more votes away from Trump than from Biden. More of his supporters is they're given only a choice of Trump or Biden. Big Trump over Biden, which suggests that this he's on a ballot. He alone, he could lead more support from Trump. Aaron, finally, the GOP primary fight is continuing. It's Super Tuesday tomorrow with 15 states voting. Does this poll reveal any vulnerabilities for Trump that could complicate his his path to the nomination potentially? I would say it's actually the opposite. The primaries so far have suggested a weakness for Trump that we don't see in this national poll. In these primaries, quite a few Republicans, especially those voting for Nikki Haley, have said they will not vote for Trump in those ever that if Trump is the nominee, even though they identify as Republicans, they would be so disappointed that they were not supporting in November. This is something we have written out of New Hampshire and South Carolina and Michigan that that Trump was having trouble holding his coalition together. That's not the true, but this poll finds that both parties have had trouble holding for coalitions together and that Biden has the greater problem. So while some Republicans don't want to vote for Trump in November, this national poll suggests that Biden has more work to do to unify his party than Trump does. I have been speaking to Wall Street Journal editor Aaron Zidner who oversees the journals polling efforts. Aaron, thank you so much. As always, great to be with you. And finally, could AI pilots be the future of the U.S. Air Force? As aircraft costs soar and flying software advances, the Air Force is turning its sights toward a new generation of pilot lists jets to bolster its fleet and to help deter China. Journal Aerospace and Defense reporter Duck Cameron has the details on these so-called mini jets roughly half the size of their conventional piloted counterparts. Because there's no pilots, that means that you take out the support systems for pilots, which makes them lighter. You can put fuel in there to fly longer distances, which is particularly important in the Western Pacific. And also, there should be cheaper. The Air Force is looking at something like a quarter or a third of an F-35, which gets you into a sort of 20 million dollar, a copy, price tag. The idea is that you can build more. They want a thousand and five years, which is both unprecedented in terms of a ramp in production, and also would give a very big boost just in terms of sheer numbers. Those numbers could help the U.S. match China's growing military industrial output, while Duck said that other tech advances could allow the mini jets to serve as communications hubs in the sky. The communication side is particularly important in the Western Pacific. Not just because of the distance, but because of concerns amongst military planners that jamming will stop GPS and satellite transmissions. This is where the big development of recent years comes in, and that's in terms of autonomous flying software. These planes can literally fly themselves. Yes, they can be controlled by cockpit or by controllers on the ground, but if communications are interrupted or stop altogether, they have the wherewithal to either make it to their targets or to carry out pre-plan maneuvers or indeed to return home. And that is What's News for Monday Morning. Today's episode was produced by Kate Bollivant and Hatty Moir. Our supervising producer is Sandra Killhoff and I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with the new show. And until then, thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music, Included with your Prime Membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.