 Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. The Supreme Court restores Donald Trump's ballot eligibility. It really puts Tares this effort to get at Trump through the insurrection clause via state courts just last week, a state judge in Illinois, removed Trump from the ballot there. This is going to end that litigation as well. And higher food prices and labor costs are squeezing independent restaurants. Plus, JetBlue and Spirit Airlines call off their merger. It's Monday, March 4. I'm Ann Marie for Tolly for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that move the world today. The US Supreme Court has restored Donald Trump's ballot eligibility in Colorado, ruling that states lack the power to reject presidential candidates on the grounds that they engaged in a rebellion or insurrection against the US government. While the judgment was unanimous, four justices and separate opinions said the majority had gone too far in limiting ways to enforce the insurrection clause. In a statement, Trump called the ruling a quote big win for America. Let's jump into what the decision means with our Supreme Court correspondent Jess Breven. Welcome back Jess. Hi, I'm Marie. All right. So to start, what does this ruling say about states rights versus the authority of the federal government? Well, it says that states don't have any independent power to enforce the insurrection clause when it comes to federal candidates and federal elections. That means that they can for state officials, and in fact one state already has, but not for candidates for federal office or federal office holders. It also says that the authority for that enforcement belongs to Congress and Congress would need to pass some legislation explaining how you keep insurrectionists out of federal office under the terms of the 14th Amendment. So let's get into the other opinions regarding the insurrection clause because the Supreme Court didn't rule on the merits of that charge that President Trump was an insurrectionist, but they did have opinions on this clause. Can you explain what that's about? Court's in Colorado did find that he engaged in an insurrection, but the Supreme Court didn't address that issue one way or the other. All this case was about was what are the procedures for enforcing the constitutional bar on having people who engage in insurrection or rebellion take federal office? And the majority said, and that was a five-member majority, said that like some other provisions of the 14th Amendment, it needs to be addressed by congressional legislation. Before other justices all agreed on the basic point that you can't have a sort of patchwork system where each state is judging the eligibility of candidates on its own. So that that part they all agreed on the part where they disagreed was well, what about some other permutations of enforcing the insurrection clause? And one example that the three liberal justices led by Justice Sonia Sotomayor gave was what if you're being prosecuted by an insurrectionist? Could you bring up that as a defense in court and say, well, they have no right to prosecute me because they're not entitled to hold this office under the federal government? Justice Amy Coney Barrett writing only for herself agreed that the majority went too far and thought the opinion should be limited to presidential candidates. The majority opinion, which was unsigned, they use the term percurium by the whole court, said they didn't understand why the three liberals were all bent out of shape because they did agree on the key issues here on this question. And as you said before, it really puts to rest this effort to get at Trump through the insurrection clause via state courts just last week, a state judge in Illinois removed Trump from the ballot there. This is going to end that litigation as well. Just how does today's ruling impact the cases still pending against Donald Trump? You might think of today's case as really serve an appetizer for an all you can eat banquet of Trump related cases as the Supreme Court term continues over the coming months. This one was really in some ways an easy one pretty much everyone expected this outcome. The most important case still on the agenda involving Trump has to do whether he can be prosecuted for his alleged crimes related to January six and the effort to stop the transfer of power to present Biden after Trump lost the 2020 election. The Supreme Court is going to hear argument over that issue in April and we hope would have an answer by the end of June. And then there are still other Trump related cases there. There's one involving one of the charges that was filed against him. The case doesn't specifically involve him. He's not a party to it, but he will be affected by the outcome. And then there are even some ones that are maybe a bit more amusing. There's a trademark dispute over whether the term Trump too small can be trademarked for its use on shirts and souvenirs and so on. An anti-Trump guy in California wants to trademark that phrase and sell t-shirts so with it that phrase on it. So lots of Trump stuff left to go totally going to overshadow many of the other cases that are also important that the Supreme Court is going to hear this term. That's Wall Street Journal Supreme Court correspondent Jess Breven. JetBlue and Spirit Airlines have ended their $3.8 billion merger. The decision comes several weeks after a judge blocked the deal arguing the tie-up would hurt competition and lead to higher fares. The airlines appealed that January ruling, though some analysts said overturning it would likely be long shot. JetBlue and Spirit said they came to the decision that they probably couldn't overcome the legal and regulatory hurdles. The European Union has fined Apple about $2 billion, saying the company violated antitrust rules by restricting app developers from telling users about alternative ways to subscribe to music streaming services. Apple has also been ordered to change its practices. The fine is one of the EU's largest ever antitrust penalties and could lead to a wider battle between the block's regulators and the tech giant. Apple said it plans to appeal the decision and said the European Commission, which is the EU's executive body, failed to come up with credible evidence of consumer harm. The fine comes as the EU's new digital markets act is set to take effect this week. The ax aim is to make it easier for small arrivals to compete against big tech companies. Coming up with diners fed up with higher prices and labor cost rising, some independent restaurant owners say they're getting squeezed. More after the break. Last week, a federal judge in San Francisco acquitted Chinese state-owned company, Fujin, Genwa, integrated circuit of economic espionage and conspiracy. The case involved an incident nearly a decade ago. Employees at the Taiwan Factory of US chip maker Micron Technology abruptly left with hundreds of internal files for a rival company that was teaming up with Genwa. The ruling was a crushing defeat in a case the Justice Department had made the centerpiece of a year's long push dating to the Trump administration to protect domestic companies from Chinese efforts to steal American corporate secrets. Wall Street Journal senior reporter Arunavish Wenatha. What the FBI and the Justice Department do is investigate cases and prosecute cases. And so they wanted to try to use that as an avenue here and as another tool and a lever they could pull. And what this verdict shows is that one, sometimes they may have pursued cases where the facts were a little bit murky and they couldn't quite pin it on the Chinese company. And so when pursuing criminal cases, they usually have the ability to serve subpoenas on a lot of people that collect a lot of information and documents and emails. And here they don't have access to information from within China and they can't get information from the phones of people that might have been involved in China. They can't build the kind of case that they're used to making and when that's the case, their cases might not end up meeting the burden of proof that they need to prove that this happened in a US court. Micron declined to answer questions from the Wall Street Journal and the Chinese Embassy in Washington said China opposes American efforts to use the courts to curb Chinese technological and scientific progress. You can hear more about this story on tomorrow's tech news briefing podcast. Higher food prices are hitting everyone, but the skyrocketing costs driving food prices up are now pushing many independent restaurant owners out. They say they're also being squeezed by higher labor costs and backlash from diners who aren't happy about paying more for their sit down meals. Here now to explain is Wall Street Journal restaurant reporter Heather Haddon. Welcome back Heather. Thanks so much. Heather, I'm sure many of our listeners may know restaurants that didn't emerge from the pandemic. One of my favorite diners was among them. But for those that did it sounds like what was working before economically isn't working now. Why not? Yeah, a lot of these restaurant operators we spoke to just said the business model is broken basically that prior to the pandemic they had certain ratios for how much labor should cost, how much their goods, the food should cost and then would factor in pricing with that. The pandemic really shook up restaurants, you know, like you said many closed. But the ones that survived they've gone through a lot of tumult so they have had to pay a lot more for workers and some of that was because of supply. They're just wasn't the supply of workers like they had prior and then there's other things like minimum wage increases and other mandates that they're having to deal with. So labor has gone up astronomically for a lot of these restaurants and you know a lot of these restaurants are sit down establishments where they need workers to serve the food. They're just not fast food restaurants like a lot of chains are and a lot of these restaurants bumped up prices but they feel like they can't keep bumping them up because there's almost only so much customers are willing to take. You know you go to a diner and you expect kind of an affordable meal, not a not a fine dining price. Right, it might be challenging to sort of see these dynamics behind the scenes when you're looking at sort of eye popping price points on the menus but how are independent restaurant owners dealing with all of these challenges right now. Yes, so they're trying to be smart and savvy and a lot of the folks we talked to said they're really getting in the granular details of their food costs. So they're really trying to look at maybe an ice cream sundae that doesn't make sense to serve anymore because the machine costs so much to maintain like one North Carolina restaurant we talked to or maybe they need to alter like a Denver restaurant the appetizer plate so maybe you know they have to strip out some really expensive hand rolled grape leaves and substitute some big beans for that because it's just cheaper. Maybe they have to just kind of pair back some of the staffing at certain times that they might have typically had just because they can't have that other person on staff right now because it's expensive and Johnny Rogers is the restaurant you mentioned that got rid of its Sundays they also had to make some other really difficult choices. Yes, so that Johnny Rogers restaurant the labor cost her up about 25% since 2019 the owner told us but still other employees are struggling you know just because the hourly wages are going up doesn't mean that these workers can survive and the owners actually run a holiday code drive for two of his restaurants and some of those codes going to the children of the employees because even if you're making $17.35 an hour like. One of the workers were saying it's still challenging for them to survive. What is the broader economic impact if these independent restaurants continue to struggle in the way that they have been independent restaurants are a huge employer so when independent restaurant closes you're losing those jobs and that's really bad for communities you know it's also just another empty storefront which is not good for communities either their neighborhood gathering places places that people like to be in you know it feels good to go out to eat. Gather with friends in one of those places close it is a loss. That's Wall Street Journal restaurants reporter Heather had in. And finally Peppa Pig is a wildly popular English cartoon even among American kids now I don't really have a stake in this I only have to watch these kinds of shows when I'm visiting friends with little ones but the Peppa franchise which includes toys pajamas and theme parks made $1.7 billion in retail sales in 2022. And it was the fourth most in demand children series world wide last year according to entertainment consulting firm parrot analytics. It turns out some parents worry Peppa isn't setting the best example for their kids styles reporter Harvey Lieber wrote about the backlash. She basically embodies your typical four year old so she says whatever comes to mind she taunts her little brother George which is very classic for an older sibling. She kind of groans if her parents need to like stop for something on the way home and says oh this is so ball ring. And when I was talking to parents I found that the sort of younger age parents like millennials really had strong opinions against Peppa as opposed to let's say parents on the older range maybe in their 40s. The millennial parents that I spoke with just found Peppa to be really rude and abrasive and not a good role model for their children. And the difference for these millennial parents is that they expect more from a TV show when it comes to modeling behaviors. And of course we also heard from parents who appreciate Peppa fans say it's helpful for kids to learn that their feelings even the slightly mean ones are totally normal. And a senior executive at Hasbro which owns Peppa Pig said they see her not as too direct or rude but as self assertive and self confident. And that's what's news for this Monday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre Bianna May and Anthony Bansi with supervising producer Michael Cusmedi's. I'm Ann Marie for Tolly for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.