 Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. A U.S. espionage investigation finds communication devices on Chinese cranes at U.S. ports. This is coming amid a backdrop of great bipartisan concerns in both the Democratic and Republican Party about Chinese technology and Chinese supply chains infiltrating the United States, and the potential for disruptions or risks in the event of a serious conflict with Beijing. And a forensic DNA scandal threatens thousands of criminal cases in Colorado. Plus, a Wall Street Journal investigation shows a surge of illegal settler construction in the West Bank. It's Thursday, March 7. I'm Amary for Tolly for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. The findings of a congressional investigation of Chinese-built cargo cranes at U.S. ports is raising concerns the foreign machines may pose a covert national security risk. We report exclusively that the U.S. has found communications equipment that doesn't appear to support normal operations, including in some cases cellular modems that could be accessed remotely. That's according to congressional aides and documents. Joining me now with more on the Wall Street Journal scoop is our Cybersecurity and Intelligence Reporter Dustin Volts. Welcome back Dustin. Thanks for having me. So what exactly does the equipment that was found in this investigation do? Well, there are a lot of questions that congressional investigators are still trying to get to the bottom of. But essentially, these are modems built within the cranes that could allow for remote access and might not necessarily be nefarious in their use. In fact, modems are often included on these types of cranes and they can be used to sort of support mobile diagnostic tests and monitoring of how the cranes are functioning at the ports. But what seems to be alarming lawmakers and others that have learned about this is that at least in some of the cases, the U.S. ports that have these modems did not actually ask for them in their contracts. They might not be doing something suspicious or nefarious, but the fact that they were seemingly not actually being used for anything by the ports and do have this remote capability of being accessed at least is giving a lot of concern for lawmakers in Congress and prompting them to investigate and ask more questions. What are the major concerns U.S. officials have? So the concerns are twofold. One, there's sort of a risk or a fear that these cranes could be sort of tracking what's going in and out of port for normal importations or those maybe that are military related and that by tracking sort of the shipping. There could glean certain insights about sort of what's going on in the U.S. with our economy and with our military movements and that sort of thing. The second concern is sort of a more, I guess, Hollywood style scenario where these cranes could actually be sort of disrupted or taken off line if they sort of came baked with some sort of hidden software that could then be activated. Likely in a conflict with China over Taiwan or something like that and then once again, that would sort of be a rather calamitous to have our ports no longer able to function anymore. This is especially concerning for people because about 80% of cranes throughout the United States at our ports are Chinese furnished by a state owned company in China called ZPMC. How is China and that state owned company responding to those concerns? ZPMC has not responded to our requests for comments. The Chinese government says that this is simply paranoia on the part of the United States and that this is basically a form of economic protectionism that's trying to decouple China from the U.S. economy and sort of favor domestic solutions. That was sort of the response especially after last month the Biden administration took the step of announcing they were going to invest over $20 billion over the next five years in replacing these Chinese cranes with those that are going to be built domestically. How else might the U.S. respond given these concerns? It remains to be seen. The $20 billion investment was a really big step. The administration has said that they remain concerned and are continuing to investigate the crane issue. This is coming amid a backdrop of great bipartisan concerns in both the Democratic and Republican Party about Chinese technology and Chinese supply chains infiltrating the United States and the potential for disruptions or risks in the event of a serious conflict with Beijing. So there's a lot happening across many industries to try to address the perceived risks of Chinese technology within American society. And separately the House Homeland Security Committee said that it is continuing to investigate the specific issue and that they're planning to release or finish a report in April that hopefully will give more public attention to the concerns that they have about Chinese cranes. Wall Street Journal, Cybersecurity and Intelligence Reporter, Dustin Volts. Coming up, a forensic DNA scandal in Colorado is throwing the state's justice system into chaos, threatening thousands of criminal cases. More after the break. Hey, what's news fans? Listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? That's right, all your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music ad-free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown ad-free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most ad-free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your prime membership. To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free or visit Amazon.com slash what's news? That's Amazon.com slash what's news. It's just that easy. A scandal is unfolding in the field of forensic DNA testing. An expert say it could be one of the largest in history. For nearly three years, Yvonne Missy Woods was Colorado's star forensic scientist and her work was considered a gold standard by colleagues. But she abruptly resigned in November. On the same day, the state's Bureau of Investigation said it had discovered anomalies in her work during an internal review. And that it was launching a criminal probe. The state said it would need to review and retest about 3,000 DNA samples would handle. And public defenders estimate thousands of cases could be affected. Our enterprise reporter Dan Frosh has more. You have district attorney's offices all over the state who are having to sift through hundreds of cases where Missy was listed as a witness or a potential witness. And figure out to what extent she handled DNA evidence in those cases. You have the Colorado Bureau investigation conducting a probe into Missy's handling of DNA evidence for the last 29 years. And trying to figure out what exactly she did and what impact her alleged misconduct may have on cases. And then you have defense lawyers who are trying to figure out if their clients cases, some of which have long since been adjudicated, were impacted as well. So together you have sort of a chaotic moment in Colorado's criminal justice system that could potentially impact thousands of cases. An attorney for Wood says she's cooperating with the investigation and that she stands by the reliability and integrity of her work. Hamas has paused his participation in talks aimed at securing a ceasefire in Gaza. Officials familiar with the discussions say the group's leader is demanding Israel commit to discussing a permanent stop in fighting, which puts him at odds with other Hamas leaders. Israel has said a collapse in talks would prompt it to move ahead with a military operation against Rafa, which it sees as Hamas's last major stronghold in Gaza. U.S. and Arab officials have been pushing Israel and Hamas to agree to a six week truce ahead of the start of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan. A Wall Street Journal investigation has found that since October 7th, Israeli settlers have been rapidly building illegal roads and outposts across the West Bank. The Wall Street Journal's video investigations team produced a video detailing the findings. Reporter Ben Solomon documented it on the ground. The journal found these roads are often being built in just a few days, partially with money from the Israeli government. According to videos the journal verified and local witnesses, much of this work is being done with unmarked construction vehicles, often under armed guard. Settlements are illegal under international law, but legal under Israeli law. Over the years, some members of the movement began creating new small encampments known as outposts, which are illegal under both Israeli and international law. Now researchers say since October 7th, the pace of outposts and illegal road construction is surging. Israeli researcher and activist Jor Etkis has combed the West Bank tracking expansions like these since 2002. Roads are connecting outposts with settlements, they're connecting outposts with outposts, they're connecting outposts with agricultural area, and there are also important borders which every Palestinian understand that they cannot cross, geographic dominance. This is exactly what these all settlements outpost roads are all about. This is what it's all about. Many settlers say roads are built to avoid confrontations with Palestinians. The Israeli government says if it sees illegal construction, it takes action, though the government declined to review the journal's findings. You can see our video investigation on WSJ.com. We'll leave a link in the show notes. In other news, the Justice Department plans to pay whistleblowers who tell prosecutors about corporate crime. This adds a new incentive to attract more tipsters to aid the government. They'd be paid out of money that defendants forfeit when they settle criminal charges or a sentence after a guilty plea or conviction. Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco said the Department plans to launch a pilot program later this year. whistleblowing has already become a lucrative if risky profession for some insiders. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission operates similar programs. In his second day of testimony on Capitol Hill, Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell told lawmakers the central bank is not far from being able to cut interest rates. Powell repeated his view that the Fed was looking for greater confidence that inflation was returning to its 2% target as we reported yesterday. But today he went a step further by qualifying how soon the Fed might get there. Yesterday, Powell had signaled that the Fed wasn't considering a rate cut at its next meeting on March 19th and 20th. That shifted attention to whether the central bank might be in a position to cut rates around the middle of the year. President Biden will deliver his state of the Union address tonight at 9 p.m. Eastern time. He's expected to talk about his economic agenda and call for unity amid a divided government. The speech will give Biden what will likely be his largest televised audience before this summer's democratic national convention. The parents of imprisoned Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovic, who is detained in Russia, will be there as guests of House Speaker Mike Johnson. The US government has designated him as wrongfully detained. You can follow our live coverage of the state of the Union at WSJ.com. And finally, Bike theft is a profitable business that's become more lucrative with the arrival of expensive electric bikes. According to the Bike Registry Project 529, almost 2 million bikes are stolen each year, costing cyclists almost a billion dollars. That's up from 500 million dollars a decade ago. Police say they take Bike theft seriously, but often lack the manpower to tackle the problem. So a cohort of amateur detectives in cities like Minneapolis, Minnesota, Portland, Oregon, and Burlington, Vermont have taken it upon themselves to find stolen bikes and return them to their owners. Wall Street Journal contributor John Clark says recovering these bikes can get a little dicey. They're pretty committed and very creative. You know, they're different people, you know, different ages. Mike Pavlovich has seen a lot. He has a military background. Generally, kind of meet people after they put up the bikes or sale on anything from Craig Blip to Facebook Marketplace. And then he'll meet a thief and basically just confirm that the bike is the one he'd after. And then just calmly tell him, hey, that's my bike. Do you want to meet a call of police? You just want to hand it over. And often the alleged thief just handed over. He had a pussle with one guy for a bike and had to use a bear spray on him to get away clean on the bike. He had a lot of these interactions with people and it's how they get to real adrenaline rush for these guys. Yikes. I remember the days when having a bike lock was all you'd need. Mike's local police department says it commends residents for stepping up to improve safety in their communities, but it doesn't endorse aggressive tactics that put anyone in harm's way. And that's what's news for this Thursday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre BNMA and Anthony Vancey with supervising producer Michael Kissmedis. I'm Ann Marie for Tolly for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.