 Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. China plans a trillion-un bond sale to hit an ambitious 5% economic growth target. China's world's second largest economy. You know, there are actually more countries in the world that count. China as their top trading partner than the US. So that gives you a sense of how this could ripple around the world. Plus, the US welcomes a top Israeli opposition leader to Washington as White House frustration with Israel's wartime conduct mounts. And a potentially maker-break day for Nikki Haley as 15 states head to the polls. It's Super Tuesday, March 5th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal and here is the AM edition of What's New. The top headlines and business stories moving your world today. Bitcoin is within striking distance of its all-time high. The largest cryptocurrency by market value briefly crossed $68,000 last night, just $990 from its previous record before dropping slightly this morning. He was market's reporter, Caitlin McCabe. Bitcoin is an incredibly volatile asset. So I'm personally always a bit wary of making strong predictions of where it will go. But that being said, we are seeing Bitcoin on this pretty incredible run this year. It's prices risen by more than 50 percent. And some people are feeling pretty optimistic about its trajectory, especially given the excitement around Bitcoin ETFs. But it's important to keep in mind that we've been here before. You know, people were feeling really optimistic the last time we saw Bitcoin trade consistently above $60,000 in November 2021, only for it to finish in the $40,000 range by the end of that year. Bitcoin's climb has been aided by the early success of exchange traded funds that hold the cryptocurrency. Just last week, the BlackRock I shares Bitcoin trust, a clipped $10 billion in assets, becoming the fastest ever new ETF to reach that milestone. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos has reclaimed the title as the world's richest person, nudging Elon Musk into second place, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Shares in Tesla have dropped by 24 percent year to date, dragging Musk's net worth down by $31 billion so far this year. The news also comes as Musk is being sued by four former Twitter executives claiming that he owes them more than $128 million in severance. The year-long dispute originates from Musk's takeover of the social media platform where he fired the executives for negligence and willful misconduct, which they deny. Musk's lawyer has declined to comment on the suit. And regulators probing the mid-air blowout on Alaska Airlines plane in January have found that Boeing allegedly failed to comply with quality control requirements in manufacturing. That comes after the Federal Aviation Administration carried out a six-week audit of Boeing and manufacturing partner Spirit Aerosystems in response to the incident. In order to hold Boeing accountable, the FAA says it's halted production expansion of the company's 737 MAX planes and will continue its on-site presence at Boeing and Spirit's manufacturing facilities. China has set a 5 percent growth target for this year. A rate higher than many economists had expected and adding pressure on Beijing to deliver as economic challenges mount. It is one of the big announcements to come out of the annual gathering of top Chinese policymakers known as the two sessions meetings, which got underway in earnest today and which offer a number of clues but the direction the country's leaders which to take it. Jonathan Cheng is the journal's Beijing Bureau Chief and he joins me now with a look at China's latest growth forecast and the plans to jumpstart the world's second-largest economy. Jonathan 5 percent what should we make of this growth target? Well first of all it's exactly the same as the number that we had for last year which perhaps predictably they did succeed in making. They very rarely missed their growth targets. It definitely is an indicator both of what they think the economy is going to do as well as what they might do in terms of stimulus to attain that target. So it is very closely watched and it is interesting that they're able to keep it at that same level because most outside forecasters, if you look at the IMF or the World Bank or others, they'll tell you that growth is probably right now on a trajectory to hit something like four and a half or four point six percent this year. But again that's knowing what we know right now and that would be in the absence of stimulus. So to say five percent suggests that there may be some more juicing of the economy from the Chinese government this year. What plans are we hearing about taking shape in order to hit this target given that they barely hit it last year? You said perhaps predictably they did hit it but it was touch-and-go watching from abroad. It was touch-and-go but the worst stimulus measures last year, nothing like what we saw during the financial crisis but they did need to rely on that to get to their target. This year what we heard from the Premier Lietien was he told us one that we're going to hit five percent growth and two that we're going to get there in part by issuing one trillion Chinese yuan of ultra long special bonds issued by the central government. One trillion yuan is about 140 billion dollars so it is a substantial sum and what's notable about it is that they've only done this three previous times in the past quarter century that is issuing one of these ultra long special bonds from the central government and the previous three times were during the Asian financial crisis in 1998 during the global financial crisis in 2007-2008 and then during the COVID-19 outbreak in 2020. So that does say something about the mindset of Beijing's leadership. Given this expectation of another year of five percent growth setting up at least a two-year plateauing of what was once a very steep growth curve, what does this all mean for the rest of the world economically speaking for the year ahead and beyond really? Well obviously China's world's second largest economy so it is one that is very plugged into many other countries and their economic futures. Are there actually more countries in the world that count China as their top trading partner than the US? So that gives you a sense of how this could ripple around the world. Of course China's economy has been in a bit of a funk for the last couple of years. Now there was COVID so the whole world was in a funk you could say but we're now starting to get a pretty clear picture that China is not going to be able to be that engine of growth in the same way that it was for the decade or two prior to COVID. It was always inevitable that it would plateau. It's just the speed with which it's happening is the surprising part that is what is going to be difficult for the rest of the world to be able to digest whether you're selling natural resources to China like Australia, Canada and many other countries or whether you're trying to sell goods into China to Chinese consumers. If China does turn as many economists expect it to towards exporting more of its goods that it can't sell at home then you may start to see a lot of Chinese goods, electric vehicle solar panels and other things flooding the world market and that is potentially going to have a disinflationary effect on the world and maybe that sounds like a relief after a couple of years of worrying about inflation being too high but it will of course threaten a lot of electric vehicle industries in other countries to give one example you may see trade protectionism start to grow again and that may lead to a very different picture than we have today. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal Beijing, Bureuchief Jonathan Chang. Coming up the UN finds grounds to believe that sexual violence including rape occurred during Hamas's October 7th attacks on Israel plus the Supreme Court temporarily blocks a Texas law allowing police to arrest migrants, those stories and more after the break. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most ad-free top podcasts so we know they definitely have something for you and it's already included in your prime membership. To start listening download the Amazon Music app for free or visit amazon.com-slash-what's-news that's amazon.com-slash-what's-news it's just that easy. Music A UN report has concluded that there are reasons to believe sexual violence including rape occurred during Hamas's October 7th attacks on Israel in which 1200 people were killed and about 250 taken hostage. The report from the UN's special representative on sexual violence in conflict also found clear and credible evidence that female hostages were raped but did not have enough information to attribute the sexual violence in rape to Hamas or any other armed groups. Hamas officials have denied that its fighters raped women but the group didn't immediately respond to a request for comment on the UN findings. Meanwhile after conducting humanitarian air drops into Gaza over the weekend, Journal Middle East correspondent Jared Moussen told me that the US is exploring more ways to address the humanitarian situation in the territory. After Vice President Kamala Harris called conditions there inhumane. US officials are saying they're exploring a range of options to get aid in. They're also looking into a maritime corridor potentially to bring aid from somewhere like Cyprus across the Mediterranean and this is an expression of the Biden administration's increasing frustration with the Israeli government where they are trying to without using coercive means like cutting off the supply of weapons for the war in Gaza. They're using other means to show that they're not happy with the situation by essentially going around the border crossings that are largely controlled by Israel, basically trying every other means at their disposal. And Jared, in terms of the state of the US Israel relationship now, we saw yesterday that Benny Gauntz, a key figure in Israel's war cabinet, traveled to DC to meet with US officials in spite of objections from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. What should we read into that? The Gauntz visit is very significant because it's another pressure point that the administration has on the Israeli government. Gauntz, of course, is an opposition leader and he represents an alternative to Netanyahu if that government were ever to fall apart. And it's another way of signaling to Netanyahu and to the government that they're not happy with the status quo that they have other lines of influence and to the government and into Israeli politics potentially. It was journal Middle East correspondent Jared Moussen. The Supreme Court has temporarily blocked a Texas law that allows police to arrest migrants who enter the US illegally and order them to leave the country. The law, known as Senate Bill 4, had been set to take effect on Saturday. However, in order issued by the Supreme Court yesterday, it means it's now been placed on hold for at least a week. Republican governor Greg Abbott signed the law in December as part of a series of border measures that have tested how far a state can go to keep migrants from entering the country, marking a legal showdown over the federal government's authority over immigration. And the primary season's busiest day, Super Tuesday, is upon us, with voters in 15 states set to cast ballots for their party's nominee for president. It could be a pivotal day for Nikki Haley's long shot bid to stop Donald Trump from securing the Republican nomination. With more than a third of all GOP delegates up for grabs today and many states awarding them on a winner-take-all basis, even strong second-place finishes could leave her empty-handed. After holding events in Virginia, North Carolina, Massachusetts, Vermont, and Maine in recent days, all of which vote today, Haley tried to drum up enthusiasm in Texas last night. In a general election, we're given a choice. In a primary, we make our choice. It's time for us to make that choice. And we'll have more on what to watch for as voting gets underway on this evening's What's News podcast, along with live results on WSJ.com. And finally, an experimental new drug from Vertex Pharmaceuticals could be a game-changer for pain treatment without the risk of addiction. The opioid crisis means that doctors no longer prescribe opioids as easily as they once did because of the addictive side effects, even though millions of Americans still suffer from debilitating pain. David Wainer writes about health care for the journals heard on the street column, and he says that a non-opioid drug from Vertex could pave the way for better pain killers. Think of the opportunity here, less as the big obesity bonanza bringing in tens of billions of dollars in annual sales of pharma companies like Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk, and more like the slow, but promising progress being made in fighting Alzheimer's. While its drug didn't beat opioid-based Vycadin in acute pain studies, it didn't now perform Lyrica, an older drug, in diabetic neuropathy patients. Vertex's results are likely to unleash more investment in research into this class of sodium channel blockers. And since Vertex will be able to claim its drug isn't addictive, it should establish a decent-sized market. Investors have added about $20 billion to Vertex's market cap in recent months, with some Wall Street analysts describing the pain market as the next big investment opportunity in health care. And that is what's news for Tuesday morning. Today's show was produced by capable of it and hadimoire. Our supervising producer is Sandra Killhoff and I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. And until then, thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.