 Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. It's Biden vs Trump again after Nikki Haley exits the race for the White House. Even though we've had a long period of people not liking their presidential candidates, our polling shows that the intensity of dislike is stronger, the antipathy toward either man is higher than we've seen. And Troubled New York Community Bank Corp gets an investment of more than $1 million. Plus Fed Chair Powell says the central banks on track to cut rates this year. It's Wednesday, March 6th. I'm Amary for Tolly for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. We reported it exclusively this morning and now it's confirmed. Nikki Haley, the first major candidate to challenge Donald Trump for the 2024 GOP presidential nomination, has suspended her campaign. Haley lost all but two of this year's nominating contests. The former South Carolina governor was Trump's first ambassador to the United Nations. But in announcing her exit from the presidential race today, she declined to immediately endorse her former boss. It is now up to Donald Trump to earn the votes of those in our party and beyond it who did not support him. And I hope he does that. At its best, politics is about bringing people into your cause, not turning them away. And our conservative cause badly needs more people. After Super Tuesday, the path was further cleared for Trump to become the Republican standard bearer for the third consecutive presidential election. On his social media platform today, just before Haley made her announcement, Trump boasted that he'd quote, Trump's turn on Super Tuesday. Meanwhile, Trump picked up an endorsement from outgoing Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, despite years of acrimony. McConnell's decision to back Trump comes after weeks of negotiations aimed at repairing the rift between the two. McConnell blamed Trump for the January 6, 2021 attack on the U.S. Capitol, though he did not vote to convict Trump in his impeachment trial later that year. And then there were two. After Super Tuesday, the country is moving into a new phase of the 2024 presidential election and an expected matchup between President Biden and former President Donald Trump. It may be a rematch, but it's an election unlike any other. President Biden is the oldest presidential candidate ever, and Trump is only slightly younger. Both are essentially running as incumbents on already established White House track records, and they're pitching to a very polarized electorate. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal reporter and editor Aaron Zittner. Great to have you back, Aaron. Hey, good to be with you. Let's start there, Aaron. What the candidates have in common. It may seem to voters that not much, but they do share some similarities on age, on an existing record voters can look to. What else? Well, that's right. These are two. Well, Biden is the oldest president we've ever had. Trump isn't that far behind him. He's age 77. Biden is 81. And these people are universally known. We're going to go through the next months of this election, and for a lot of people, they're not going to learn a whole lot about these two men that they didn't know before. They're also very strongly disliked. And even though we've had a long period of people not liking their presidential candidates, our polling shows that the intensity of dislike is stronger. The antipathy toward either man is higher than we've seen. So given all of that, how are they going to be pitching their messages to an unenthused, and I imagine in some cases, we re-electar it. Well, that's right. I expect to see from Joe Biden a lot of negative advertising. He's got to make this a choice rather than a referendum on himself, because his job approval numbers are pretty weak. And I would highly expect his campaign to focus on raising the negatives of Donald Trump on at least three things. One is abortion, fortified by this IVF opinion that came out of Alabama. Two, I think you'll see them use the Trump tax cuts to argue that they went disproportionately to the wealthy and to corporations. And three, of course, is the fragility of democracy in our democratic institutions and what happened on January 6, 2021 after the election. Trump, of course, has been running against Biden for a long time and demonizes him. He's a very unusual candidate in that he has such an intense amount of loyalty among his supporters and continually fortifies that loyalty. What's been interesting to me with Trump lately is at this point in a campaign you would expect the candidate to move to the center and try to enlarge your group of supporters. He until very recently has still been out there demonizing Nikki Haley supporters, saying that their donors are not welcome in the Republican Party, saying we're running the Mitt Romney's out of this party. You know, Aaron, it also strikes me that a lot of what we're used to seeing during elections, the debates, the conventions are changing a lot too. That's right, the kind of rhythms that we've become accustomed to, really have changed. As you mentioned, we just had a series of debates that never heard from the leading candidate. We just had a series of primaries and caucuses which most people suspected were over before they ever started. Now we move into a general election in which, you know, can an 81 year old candidate barnstorm the country? How much can they put him on the campaign trail? We don't know if there are going to be debates. There's an argument for Joe Biden to participate, to try to put to rest, any questions about his mental acuity. But if they occur, I suspect that Americans are going to be watching them less for what policies each man would bring to the White House, because these are people who already have track records in the White House. Then for whether they're going to show that they have the mental acuity and physical robustness to handle the job. We talked a little bit earlier about the debate over abortion and access to reproductive rights. What else has shifted for voters over the past four years? Well, one of the main ones is inflation and immigration, particularly immigration. Our polling finds a rarity in politics, which is that an issue other than the economy is now top of mind for voters. And that is immigration. We still have this overhang of inflation. But as the economy and inflation kind of wane as issues, immigration has come to the fore. And it's just more prominent and more problematic than we've seen. And you're seeing large shares of independence and even Democrats say that immigration is a problem. And overall Americans are not satisfied with how Joe Biden is handling it. And finally, Aaron, we talk a lot about this being an unprecedented election. And there's really not a better word I can think of for it. One of the candidates, Trump, of course, is facing criminal trials. What are the next couple of months hold? Well, that's right. We've never had this kind of split screen election where events in the courtroom are playing out at the same time as events on the campaign trail. And Americans are going to have to sort through what they think about this and what it might mean that even once elected their new president of its Trump could be hampered by civil cases where he's had serious adverse judgments against him. That could cripple his family business and criminal cases that could still be ongoing while he's in office. We've just never seen that before. That's Wall Street Journal reporter and editor Aaron Zittner. Coming up, Fed Chair Jerome Powell says the feds on track for rate cuts this year. So when will we see them more details after the break? Hey, what's news fans? Listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? That's right. All your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music Add Free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like the Daily up first in Fox News rundown Add Free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most Add Free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your prime membership. To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free or visit Amazon dot com slash what's news? That's Amazon dot com slash what's news? It's just that easy. New York Community Bank Corp is getting an investment of more than $1 billion from a group of investors including former US Treasury Secretary Stephen Mnuchin. The group led by Mnuchin's Liberty Strategic Capital also includes Hudson Bay Capital, Reference Capital Partners and some of the bank's management. The banks said the investors have agreed to buy common and convertible preferred stock. And YCB also announced an overhaul of its management. As we've been reporting, the bank has been in crisis since it showed signs of trouble in its commercial real estate books in January. Swung to a fourth quarter loss and slash its dividend. Last week, it disclosed that it had found material weaknesses in the way it assesses and monitors loans, triggering several credit downgrades. The Securities and Exchange Commission has approved a new climate disclosure rule that requires public companies to report their greenhouse gas emissions. But the amended rule stopped short of requiring them to report certain indirect emissions like those from their supply chains and customers use of their products. Environmental groups argue leaving them out misses the biggest chunk of greenhouse gases. Adoption of the new rule caps a contentious two-year process of intense lobbying from some of the world's biggest industries and influential climate groups. Corporations and Republicans had fought against it, arguing the SEC was reaching beyond its authority. Companies will need to start reporting emissions for fiscal year 2026. Some smaller companies won't be required to disclose them. Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell said the Central Bank is on track to cut rates this year, in remarks today before the House Financial Services Committee. Powell said January inflation and hiring data haven't changed the expectation of rate cuts, but that the Fed wants to see more evidence that inflation is slowing sustainably. I'm joined now by our Chief Economics correspondent, Nick Timoros. Nick, what exactly does that mean, a sustainable slowdown? What is the Fed looking for? Well, what Powell said today is they basically have had six very good months of inflation and they just want to make sure it's more than six. So he said a little bit more data. The markets are pricing in a June rate cut and he said nothing today to really rule that out. So it looks like we're heading towards a June rate cut. Maybe they will push it back if the economy continues to surprise with stronger growth data and firmer inflation. But he really didn't seem to react to the fact that inflation in January had been higher than expected. So on track for June, the big question has been basically when these cuts are going to happen. Yeah, I mean, he didn't say June and he didn't say May. They have pretty much ruled out doing it at their next meeting, which is in two weeks. You know, they'll have more data by the time of their early May meeting. They'll have even more data by the time of their June meeting. And if it looks like it has, you know, late last year, economy doing fine, but inflation coming in cool, that could keep the door open really for a June cut. You know, the risks for the Fed haven't really changed over the past few months. If they stay at a very high interest rate as inflation comes down, it's possible that their policy stance will be tighter than the economy needs and you'd have a bigger slowdown, then you really need to get inflation down. The other risk is that they ease too much or too soon and you have inflation progress, stall or reverse. Any other insights from Powell today on the state of the economy? Well, the big surprise today was that he pretty much, you know, threw the white flag up on this bank regulation proposal that has met with a lot of pushback from the industry. He suggested there would be broad and material changes to it. That's something the industry has been pushing for. And so it means that it'll probably delay when these rules take effect. That's Wall Street Journal chief economics correspondent Nick Timoros. And finally, sports gambling has exploded in recent years. The US Supreme Court overturned a federal ban on the practice in 2018 and since then most states have legalized it. Wagers are especially popular among men and younger Americans. In a civic science survey, 47% of millennials and 58% of Gen Zers admit to betting on sports games. Now some young betters are taking their chances on gambling to help pay back their student loans. Our finance reporting fellow, Kaelin Rowan, looked into it. With the resumption of student loan payments and still low in debt rising to more than 1.7 trillion over the past decade, more young men and more young people are turning to sports money. My source, Kael Daniels, who was a 29 year old hospital patient transporter, who was able to pay off his $7,000 dollar student loan debt. But even he says he's very lucky and has recommend people to do this, and they're not disciplined. While there's no data on how many people are doing this to pay off student loan debt, since sports gambling became legal in the sale of Ohio, the problem gambling network of Ohio knows more young people are calling his hotline a side 55% increase in that first year. Of course, consumer advocates warn against gambling to pay your monthly bills. And that's what's news for this Wednesday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre Biennium and Anthony Bansy, with supervising producer Michael Kusmedi's. I'm Anne Marie for Totally for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.