President Biden presents his budget proposal with the election in mind. And gold prices are soaring, but how sustainable is the rally? It really just depends on what you think the Fed is going to do. And that part of market psychology is still very important for what happens to gold, in particular in the U.S. Plus, Elon Musk is open-sourcing Grok, his chatbot rival to OpenAI's ChatGPT. It's Monday, March 11th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for The Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. President biden has released his budget proposal, and it isn't expected to gain momentum in Congress. The plan would boost federal spending to $7.3 trillion next fiscal year. Some of the asks are familiar policy goals, raising taxes on the wealthy and large corporations, and lowering costs of prescription drugs, childcare, and housing. It's a largely symbolic document and the first step to kick off debate in Congress over plans for the next fiscal year. But the proposal's also a cornerstone of President Biden's reelection campaign. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal economic policy reporter, Andy Duehren. Welcome back, Andy. Thanks for having me. Okay. So Andy, we know this is a budget proposal, but we know too that it's an election year budget proposal. How important is it for Biden to lay out his priorities in this way? The budget proposal comes on the heels of the State of the Union last week, and so this is really in some ways an opportunity for the president and the White House to kick off the reelection fight and present their platform to the American people on a bigger stage than they often do. And so, many of the ideas in this budget are not new. They're things that the president ran for in 2020 and also that he's proposed to Congress several times previously. But given that it's an election year, there is a little bit more curiosity about even if this isn't something that's going to become law now, what does Joe Biden want to do and what are the policies that he supports? So in that sense it is a more interesting budget than it otherwise could be, but given that Congress is not likely to take up many of its elements. And let's remind our listeners, Congress still hasn't agreed on funding plans to cover this fiscal year. What are some of the toughest battle lines in this latest proposal, Andy? A clear place where there could be difficulty and has been difficulty in the past is on some of the tax increases that the president is laying out. He's been calling for many of these proposals for years now. And even when Democrats controlled both the House and the Senate in 2021 and 2022, the Democratic Party, President Biden's own party, rejected many of these tax plans. So given that even among Democrats there's division about the extent of some of these tax increases and Republicans almost uniformly post tax increases of any kind, those are likely to be particularly difficult parts of this budget to see becoming law. There's a similar story for some of the spending plans too in terms of proposals on paid leave, and child care, and things of that nature. So past performance does not predict future performance, but it doesn't bode well I guess for some of these ideas and their odds in Congress. Okay, the budget proposal is out. What kind of responses is it getting so far? So far the responses have been, at least the ones that I've seen, have been somewhat predictable in terms of Republicans harshly criticizing this and ally Democrats supporting it. Republicans are putting forward their own budget plan that would cut a lot of spending that President Biden wants to increase, and also they oppose tax increases. So it's broken down along party lines pretty quickly in a somewhat predictable way. This is a somewhat familiar process to many Americans, but remind us what happens next over the next couple months. The way this would usually go, and I guess there is no such thing as a normal budget year anymore, but the typical federal appropriations process, it's usually kicked off by the release of the budget. And then over the coming weeks, members of the administration will go to Capitol Hill and they will testify about the budget for their particular agencies or parts of the government. That's supposed to inform the budget that Congress ultimately puts together and passes over the course of the summer and into the fall. But as is often the case, and as is particularly the case this year, Congress is still late on last year's budget. And there have been a series of stopgap measures, basically extensions of previous funding such that Congress is just now getting around to potentially finally finishing this year's budget and we're more than halfway through the fiscal year. Given some of the dysfunction and disagreement over spending in particular in Congress, you could see the debate drag out through the end of the year and potentially into the next administration. Wall Street Journal economic policy reporter, Andy Duehren. U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary, Marcia Fudge, will be stepping down later this month. She'll be the third member of President Biden's cabinet to depart since 2021. The White House said HUD's Deputy Secretary, Adrianne Todman, will serve as Acting Secretary. It's unclear whether the Senate would confirm a successor during an election year. The U.S. is grappling with the country's highest recorded level of homelessness following the Covid-19 emergency. Coming up, riskier assets like stocks are reaching new highs in the U.S. amid investor optimism. So why is the price of gold, a haven asset, also hitting records? That's after the break. Elon Musk has already set up his own artificial intelligence company, xAI, to challenge rival OpenAI, the maker of ChatGPT. Today, Musk announced his company will open-source its chatbot Grok. That means he's giving users free license to use and sometimes modify his creation. The move's the latest step in a feud between Musk and OpenAI's CEO, Sam Altman. Musk sued OpenAI, Altman, and fellow founder Greg Brockman last month alleging the company abandoned its founding mission and that it's giving priority to profits over the benefits to humanity. Social media reporter, Alexa Corse, has more. This is Musk saying, "I'm going to do this differently, not like OpenAI." And there may also be some other advantages. Open-sourcing can attract more developers and potential customers who want to test out the model. When you have developers outside your company who can really look closely at your model you can benefit from having feedback, more eyes on the model. Musk isn't the first person to do this. Meta actually made its model, called Llama 2, open-source. Then lastly, Musk has been supportive of the idea of open-source for a long time and we've seen some examples with aspects at Tesla and X as well. Gold has long been considered a haven asset, and investors have flocked to the precious metal as a safer bet during times of market volatility and geopolitical risk. But prices are now hitting record highs, catching even Wall Street analysts by surprise. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal markets reporter, Bob Henderson. So Bob, my father has invested in gold for several years. It's something he said he's putting aside for his kids, and I know many investors have used it in this way as a hedge against uncertainty in the future. But are there other factors at play right now that are driving the current rise in prices? Yeah, there definitely are. Gold is traditionally used by investors as a safe haven, a place they turn to when the economy looks like it might have difficulty, or conversely, if the economy is booming so much that inflation is a concern. Now there are several other factors at play. One is that the Federal Reserve is expected to cut rates at some point, and cutting interest rates is good for gold. The other factors are outside the U.S. Central banks have become big purchasers of gold, especially in the last few years since Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The third thing is, other overseas buyers in other economies that are in a different phase from the U.S. economy. The U.K., for example, entered recession towards the end of last year and there was a spike in gold purchases. In China, their property market has been battered, their stock market is down, and so people have turned to gold there. In India where the economy is booming, people are concerned about inflation and are buying gold for that reason as well. Why are central banks overseas buying more gold? The World Gold Council polls them and they've been asked about that. The most common reason for increasing their gold holdings is because of gold's historical performance in crisis. Whenever there's been a crisis they've stepped up their buying. So again, the 2008 financial crisis was what prompted them to really turn around and start buying rather than selling. And then more recently, Russia's invasion of Ukraine again highlighted geopolitical risk. It really comes down to that. Given all of these various factors, what are investors thinking about the sustainability of this current rally? There's very much mixed outlooks on that. And because the central banks are such a big factor, it really depends often what they're going to do and whether they're going to be dissuaded from buying gold at these higher prices. For example, China is well known in their commodity buying for being very judicious as to when they buy, whether it's oil, whether it's copper, whether it's gold. And with prices as high as they are some people think that central banks may slow down, and that could be a factor that puts a stop to the rally. On the other hand, others argue that the central bank holdings are quite small in emerging markets relative to developed markets. So there's still a lot of buying to be done and reasons to think they're going to continue. Of course, they're not the only factor. The other maybe big factor that could swing are U.S. investors which have been selling gold for actually quite a while because of the high interest rate environment. A lot of analysts expect that to flip as soon as it becomes clear that the Fed is definitely cutting rates in the near term. And then you may see that exchange-traded funds, which people have been selling gold whether by retail or institutional investors, they may stop selling and start buying. And if that happens, then the rally will not only continue but likely accelerate. That was Wall Street Journal markets reporter, Bob Henderson. Reddit says it's seeking to raise up to $748 million in its IPO aiming for a valuation of up to 6.4 billion. That's down from the $10 billion valuation the social media company had notched in its most recent fundraising round in 2021. And it's partly a reflection of investors waning appetite for unprofitable companies. In 2023, Reddit reported a net loss of more than $90 million, though the company posted net income of roughly 18 and a half million in the last three months of that year. The details come less than three weeks after Reddit said it had applied to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange. And roughly 50 passengers aboard a Boeing 787 Dreamliner operated by Latam airlines received treatment by first responders after landing in Auckland, New Zealand. The airline said the aircraft traveling from Sydney, Australia to Auckland experienced a, quote, "technical event during the flight, which caused a strong movement," end quote. New Zealand ambulance service transported a dozen patients to the hospital, including one with serious injuries. Boeing's reputation has suffered from a pair of fatal 737 MAX 8 crashes in 2018 and 2019 that grounded hundreds of jets for nearly two years. More recently, Boeing has been dogged by issues with various models including misdrilled holes, loose rudder bolts, and a door plug blowout on an Alaska Airlines MAX 9 flight in January. And finally, there are a few recognizable features inside a car, a steering wheel, seats facing the same direction, and a windshield with hopefully a clear view of the road. But as self-driving cars get closer to reality car designers and tech companies are thinking outside the box when it comes to the space inside a vehicle. Could they, for example, get rid of that steering wheel, or use the windshield to show videos or PowerPoint slides? Our European automotive reporter, William Boston, says it's a real shift for designers. One of the things they want to do is be sociable. And they don't want to kneel on the front seat and look over the bench seat in the back and talk to people who are driving in the car. They want to turn the seat around. They want to have a room that's a lounge, or a room that's an office, or a room that can be converted into a bedroom where they can lay down and sleep while the car drives them from Germany to Italy, or from New York to Los Angeles. So the vehicle now is an open space that can be used for various functions, and that's kind of where things are going. We may get there, we may not get that far, but it's taking steps now in this direction. I like the creativity but I'm not so sure about having a video screen replace my windshield even if I'm not the one driving. And that's What's News for this Monday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Anthony Bansie and Pierre Bienaime, with Supervising Producer, Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for The Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Thanks for listening.