Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle grilled Special Counsel Robert Hur over his report on President Biden's mishandling of classified documents, and why this is one of the most chaotic college admissions seasons in years. Counselors have said that they've never seen anything like this year, and this is following the chaos of the pandemic. Plus, slightly stronger than expected inflation in February raises the possibility of fewer rate cuts this year. It's Tuesday, March 12th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for The Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. US inflation ticked up slightly last month, but is unlikely to change expectations that the Federal Reserve will begin cutting interest rates as we've been reporting later this year. The Labor Department said consumer prices rose 3.2% in February, marking a second straight month where inflation readings were firmer than expected. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal reporter, Justin Lahart. Welcome, Justin. Hi. Okay, so this was only a 10th of a percentage point higher than economists had expected. We know the Fed's trying to control inflation and keep the labor market strong. Is this a sign that the balance the central bank's trying to strike isn't quite on target? The Fed is looking for progress on inflation and this report represents a little bit of a step back. Not seeing the really cool readings that we were seeing through the fall, it comes on the back of a January inflation report that was also hotter than expected, so still the expectation is that the Federal Reserve will be cutting rates this year. Right now, people think it's going to happen at the June meeting, and that didn't change with this report, but sort of at the margin maybe we're not going to have to cut rates or maybe we won't be cutting rates quite as much this year as we thought. So the last time they penciled in rate cuts, they said, "Oh, we're probably going to do three quarter point cuts in 2024. Some Fed officials might be a little uncomfortable with that, we'll get some new projections out next week after the Fed meeting, and maybe some of them will say, well, maybe only two cuts." That's Wall Street Journal reporter, Justin Lahart. Robert Hur, the Special Counsel who investigated President Biden's handling of classified documents testified before a House panel today where he faced intense questioning from lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. Hur's report found Biden was careless in keeping classified documents while out of office, but it did not result in criminal charges against the president. In his testimony today, Hur insisted the report was not an exoneration of Biden. The word exoneration does not appear anywhere in my report, and that is not my conclusion. Joining me now with more is Wall Street Journal Justice Department reporter, Sadie Gurman. Sadie, what were the major lines inquiry at today's hearing and to what extent did they fall along party lines? So, the questioning fell pretty predictably on party lines. Democrats said they viewed the special counsel's comments about Biden's shoddy memory during interviews as gratuitous, and they sought to draw striking contrast between Biden's handling of classified documents and that of former President Donald Trump, who has of course been charged by a different special counsel with felonies related to his own handling of classified material at his Mar-a-Lago resort. So Democrats predictably sought to show that Biden was cooperative with investigators, unlike Trump who refused to relinquish all of the documents in his possession and obstructed officials' efforts to give them back, but Republicans said, "If you didn't charge Biden for a very similar offense, why did you charge Trump?" So the focus was both on the prosecutor's credibility, as well as contrast and comparisons between Biden's handling of classified documents and Trump's. Sadie, we did see a couple of those details come out ahead of this hearing with the transcripts of the interviews Hur did with Biden back in October. Were there any other details that stood out to you from those transcripts? Well, it was a very interesting transcript. It painted a more nuanced picture of the President than the one that we saw coming out of Hur's report. In that interview, which was for five hours over two days, Biden tackled topics big and small, he talked about Obama era policy disputes, he went so far as to talk about his fondness for electric vehicles that he's been able to drive. At times he did stumble over minutia over details and express frustration over some of the questions that Hur and his team were asking, including about very detailed descriptions of filing cabinets and boxes and how certain documents got certain places, but for the most part, Biden seemed very animated and eager to respond to prosecutors' questions. Wall Street Journal Justice Department reporter, Sadie Gurman. Coming up, college applicants have a lot to contend with as they face the most confusing and chaotic college admissions season in years. That's after the break. Both President Biden and former President Donald Trump are likely to win enough delegates in the latest round of primary voting today to become the presumptive nominees of their respective parties. The results will be most closely watched in Georgia for the candidates' strengths and weaknesses with key demographics, including suburban, Black and Hispanic voters. In 2020, the state recorded the narrowest margin for victory when the two last competed for the presidency. Applying to college can be a pretty stressful time, at least if my memories of the process from almost 20 years ago are any indication, but this year might be the most chaotic, frustrating, and uncertain college admissions cycle in recent history. That's because prospective students are grappling with everything from the Supreme Court decision striking down affirmative action and admissions to changes to the new federal financial aid application, to confusion over standardized testing requirements. Here now to break this down is Wall Street Journal personal finance reporter, Oyin Adedoyin. Welcome Oyin. Thank you for having me. Let's start with the Supreme Court decision. We've reported about how that left schools confused in some cases about how to change their own admissions policies, but what has it meant for students applying to college? So this is the first admissions cycle that the SCOTUS decision on affirmative action is actually playing out in real-time, and this has mainly seemed to affect how students feel about mentioning their race when it comes to things like college essays. I spoke to a young student in Virginia, and she's a ballerina and she mentioned that she and her friends were hesitant to mention whether they were Black or not in their essays. So, really not knowing if it's beneficial to even self-identify on these forms? Exactly. The ruling from the Supreme Court doesn't mean that colleges can't consider race at all. It means that colleges have to consider it in conjunction with other things, so they can't just admit a student based on their race. Another big change that students are dealing with this year are alterations to the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or FAFSA. I remember this form being confusing back when I was applying in 2002, but it sounds like the recent changes made to sort of streamline this haven't made the process that much simpler. So this all comes from the FAFSA Simplification Act of 2020, which like you mentioned, was geared towards simplifying the super complicated financial aid form that most students have to fill out in order to figure out how much they're going to have to pay for college and how much they can qualify for loans and grants. So, this new form is shorter. It's online-based, it directly connects to IRS tax filings, but with that complete overhaul comes tons of technological glitches and tons of delays. So this new form came out nearly three months later than the usual FAFSA comes out, and since then the Education Department has pushed things back again as it corrects some technological glitches that aren't letting families into the form or are kicking families out of the form halfway through, or are not letting parents sign the form, which is a necessary feature in order to fully submit. So schools aren't going to be able to get the data from the Financial Aid Department on FAFSA until about mid-March or later, and that means that colleges can't give out financial aid packages until after they've gotten that application data. So, they've pushed back their deadlines for decisions to May 15th or even June 1st in many cases to give some parents and students more time to commit. How has this impacted the number of FAFSA applications? So far, there are less students submitting the FAFSA because of all these delays and glitches. 29% of high school seniors submitted the form as of March 1st compared with 45% at this time last year. So, we're really seeing this directly affect the number of students that are submitting forms. Wow, that's a big deal. As if this isn't enough to deal with altogether what we've been speaking of, there's another factor here too. At least the SAT was required for most schools I applied to, but during the pandemic a lot of schools relaxed or eliminated standardized testing requirements. Where's that left applicants this year? Uncertainty over test optional admissions policies has only added to the stresses that we've mentioned earlier. So most four-year colleges, like you said, stopped requiring these tests during the pandemic, but since then, a couple colleges have started to re-require SAT or ACT testing in college applications. Other colleges have really confusing terminology, like Louisiana State University is test optional, but students can only qualify for certain state scholarships if they submit SAT and ACT scores. Another university in Connecticut is test optional, test recommended or test required, depending on an applicant's major. So it's really complicated the system when it comes to testing, and students are also grappling with that. Should I take the SAT anyway to strengthen my application or is it okay if I don't do it? I've been speaking with Wall Street Journal personal finance reporter, Oyin Adedoyin. Boeing's problems are rippling across major US airlines. The company has slowed down production of its best-selling 737 MAX jets as it faces increased scrutiny from the Federal Aviation Administration and the Justice Department. Southwest Airlines, which flies only Boeing planes, said today it would cut flight capacity citing lower-than-expected deliveries of jets this year. Meanwhile, United Airlines is pausing pilot hiring for two months and hunting for new planes from Boeing rival Airbus to fill the gap, and Alaska Air said its plans for the year are also in flux because of uncertainty over Boeing deliveries. Green trader, Archer Daniels Midland or ADM has disclosed that it's under investigation by the Justice Department adding to scrutiny over its accounting practices. The company, one of the biggest players in the food supply chain, says current and former employees have received subpoenas. In January, ADM had placed its CFO on administrative leave after launching an internal review. Today, the company said its review found some products sold internally between business divisions were priced at a discount compared to their market rate. ADM said it developed a remediation plan to address the issue. The company's also corrected some past financial results while reporting lower quarterly sales and a more than 40% drop in earnings compared to a year ago. And finally, vending machines have become an unlikely trending investment in the last few years and have captured the imagination of Americans dreaming of easier money. There are three million of these machines in the US, and according to the National Automatic Merchandising Association, they bring in about $525 a month on average. Personal finance reporter, Joe Pinsker, explains how candy and soda machines became an unlikely investment idea. Vending machines have a relatively low startup cost, so unlike the idea of buying a whole business like a laundromat or something, you can get going with vending machines for just a couple thousand dollars. The other thing is just that this is a pretty intuitive business model to people. Just the basic premise of you put this box somewhere, you stick some food or drinks in it, and you have people sell it, it just sort of seems to make sense. There are lots of success stories, but there are also plenty of people who really struggle with it, and a lot of it has to do with the location that you end up placing your machine in. If it doesn't have the right foot traffic, you could be in trouble. You have to invest upfront a bit in the machines that you buy. You have to then pay to stock up on product at stores like Costco or Sam's Club, and you have to pay the occasional maintenance repair fee when the machine breaks down. That's some food for thought for me next time I drop some quarters into the work vending machine for a snack. To hear more about investing in vending machines, check out Joe's full interview on today's Your Money Briefing Podcast. That's What's News for this Tuesday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Anthony Bansie and Pierre Bienaimé, with supervising producer Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for The Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning.