Biden and Netanyahu escalate their war of words as hopes for a Gaza ceasefire crumble. Plus, how the rapid spread of AI is threatening college-educated professionals.All of this is then fueling a lot of predictions, some ominous, some optimistic, about what gen AI does to corporate roles. Companies are thinking, "Hey, what could gen AI do to change how a lot of white-collar professionals work?"And US investors start to circle TikTok ahead of a key vote in Congress to potentially ban the app or force a sale. It's Monday, March 11th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal and here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. Tensions are deepening between President Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu after the two leaders over the weekend presented conflicting assessments of Israel's conduct in its war with Hamas. Appearing on MSNBC's "The Saturday Show," Biden warned that an Israeli attack on the southern Gaza City of Rafah would cross a red line, and he accused Netanyahu of jeopardizing Israel's international support through its actions in Gaza.He must, he must pay more attention to the innocent lives being lost as the consequence of the actions taken. In my view, he's hurting Israel more than helping Israel by making the rest of the world it's contrary to what Israel stands for, and I think it's a big mistake.Netanyahu responded yesterday telling Politico that he didn't know exactly what Biden was referring to, but that quote, "If he meant by that I'm pursuing private policies against the wish of the majority of Israelis and that this is hurting the interests of Israel, then he's wrong on both counts." Journal correspondent Dov Lieber told me that the increasing frostiness between Biden and Netanyahu comes amid a failure to secure a ceasefire before the start of the Muslim Holy month of Ramadan and as a US military ship sets sail from Virginia to facilitate the flow of aid in tag Gaza. Another reason we might see these two fighting in public is that they both have a political interest to fight in public now. For Netanyahu, many in his base and his right wing like to see him standing up to foreign powers, standing up for Israel's interests. And for Biden, it's no secret that there are many parts in the Democratic Party and especially the progressive side who want this war to be over yesterday. And to see Biden scrapping it with Netanyahu in public demanding that the Israelis do more to get humanitarian aid into Gaza is potentially a good look for Biden for his political base.  So Dov, is it just posturing then, or could we be seeing a meaningful wedge being driven here between these two allies? This is a very, very good and important question. President Biden, in his interview that you quoted, he seemed to hint that he could in some ways block the flow of offensive weaponry from the United States to Israel. Though he wasn't very clear about that threat, although he intimated that the United States could do that while at the same time he said he would never leave the Israeli people alone. At the end of the day, President Biden, Prime Minister Netanyahu have known each other for four decades. Maybe they feel comfortable taking knots at each other because they've known each other for so long, but we will have to see how this personal relationship unfolds in the coming weeks. It could potentially affect the outcome of this war and how things look moving forward. In Washington, a congressional crackdown on TikTok has spun into high gear ahead of an expected vote Wednesday on a bill that would force its Beijing based parent ByteDance to divest itself from the app or see it banned in the US. While ByteDance has said separating the US portion of its app wouldn't be practical and would undercut its global appeal, US tech and media titans have nevertheless been circling. Former Activision CEO Bobby Kotick has reportedly expressed interest in buying TikTok if ByteDance agrees to sell and is looking for partners for a deal. Any price tag is expected to be in the hundreds of billions of dollars. And US markets have found their new champions, and it's not big tech. With heavyweights like Apple and Tesla sinking this year, a larger group of companies has helped to power recent gains and lead the S&P 500 to a fresh record last week. And our Europe markets editor Katy Barnato has the details.We have some research by Bespoke Investment Group, which suggests that almost 1/5 of stocks in the S&P 500 hit new 52-week highs recently. That's the largest share since May 2021. It seems to suggest that Wall Street's embracing the idea that the US economy has wizard a hit from interest rate rises, so that clears the wave, potentially large gains in a bigger range of stocks. And I think it potentially alleviates investors' concerns that it's just an AI bubble driving a few specific stocks, and that's going to burst.Investors will get a fresh look at stocks prospects with the release of US consumer-price data tomorrow and earnings this week from the likes of Oracle, Kohls, and Adobe. Journal workplace reporter Chip Cutter recently learned about an HR issue playing out at network equipment giant Cisco Systems. The relationship between a manager and their new hire had gotten off to a tense start, though neither could put a finger on exactly why. And so the company turned to generative artificial intelligence. And after uploading chat logs between the two employees, the software quickly detected that the new hire who was seeking extra clarity on their assignments was actually making their boss feel unheard as they kept on fielding the same questions over and over. And as Chip reports, Cisco is far from alone among major US employers in turning to AI in a trend that could have major consequences for the labor market. Chip, what should we make of this story from Cisco? It's either a huge boon for the folks on their HR team that they can now turn to AI to problem solve things, or quite worrying because until recently, this would've been solely the job of a human to handle. Well, that's exactly right. You'd have people who are really skilled at figuring out the source of workplace tensions, understanding why people might not exactly be sort of working well together, what the issue might be. And here, software was able to really give these two people an answer, which helped them then work better together. And so I think all of this is then fueling a lot of predictions, some ominous, some optimistic about what gen AI does to corporate roles. Jamie Dimon, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase, has said that AI might require future generations to only work three and a half days a week. The venture capitalist Vinod Khosla, on the other hand, also has said that AI might be able to do 80% of the jobs that exist today over the next 10 years. And so it raises bigger questions about what happens in society.   Yeah, especially, Chip, as a lot of companies are out there testing AI to see what kind of opportunities it could unlock for them, how much of a job killer it might be. What have they found out so far?So some companies have really gone all in on AI, for example, deploying tools that help their engineers write software code where a lot of companies are beginning to roll gen AI into its call centers or contact centers, just wanting people who are answering customer questions to more easily point to policies or responses, whatever it might be to speed up that job. Certainly it's leading companies to either cut jobs or say, "We definitely don't need to hire as many people going forward." So I think there's then a bigger question of beyond call centers, beyond coders, what does this really look like? And we're starting to see companies test this in a range of different corporate roles. So in marketing, for example, some teams are creating photos or marketing campaigns using gen AI. There's one company, that's the insurance company, Allstate, they have been experimenting with a tool that would allow the company to produce internal training videos in the voice and likeness of the company's HR chief or other people. The idea would be to do more sort of quick on the job training with just a few text prompts. And then other companies are analyzing earnings reports from their rivals and their competitors to better understand what's happening to prep for their own investor calls. So it's a real range here, and it just shows that companies are thinking, "Hey, what could gen AI do to change how a lot of white collar professionals work?"Yeah, a lot of different potential applications there. In terms of the quality of the work that these companies are seeing when they engage AI on all those projects, what are they finding? Yeah, so I think one of the examples here that it's interesting is from a company called Ecolab. It's an infection prevention company. Their CEO told me that they've tried this in investor relations and their finance team. And so they would use gen AI to parse earnings call transcripts from competitors, but they also then use it to create their own quarterly calls. And so they'll look back to see what the company said a year ago, for example, what they might want to emphasize this time around. And the CEO said that the gen AI analysis is kind of mixed. In one case, gen AI inserted the CEO's predecessor's name in the role. The system is sort of, he said about 60% right, 40% wrong. And so what they're doing is they kind of have a gen AI version of all of this, and then they do it the old way too. I think what that showing inside a lot of companies is that it's not ultimately a huge productivity saver just yet. Some real issue there with accuracy of course, but there are also much bigger hurdles. There are costs. For example, I mean some software charges licensing fees of $30 per user per month, so that can get pretty expensive if you're a company with 100,000 employees if everybody was going to get access to something like this. But I think security is also something that really trips a lot of executives up. There are real fears of putting proprietary data or customer data into some of these large language models. Certainly there are real concerns about privacy here. Regulations remain in flux. This is all stuff that gives executives pause. And then there's also just the human adoption piece. Getting people to change their behavior takes work too. That's another sort of potential roadblock to more people using gen AI in their everyday roles. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal workplace reporter Chip Cutter. Chip, thanks so much for bringing us this story.Thanks for having me. Coming up, the US Justice Department launches a criminal probe into the midair blowout on an Alaska Airlines flight. And Oppenheimer cleans up at the Oscars. We've got those stories and more after the break. Over the weekend, the Journal revealed that the Justice Department has opened a criminal investigation into the Alaska Airlines blowout that happened midair in early January. The DOJ has contacted passengers, crew, and pilots who were on the flight, which had to make an emergency landing in Portland. And now we have gained more insights into the sequence of events that led to the blowout. Boeing workers had spotted faulty parts on the plane's fuselage immediately after it arrived into a Boeing factory, but failed to repair them straight away. And when they did repair those faults 19 days later, workers removed but never replaced four critical bolts. Such work done outside of the normal production sequence is called Traveled work, and has been a top priority of Boeing's to eliminate because doing work out of order complicates the already complex process of putting together an airplane. We are exclusively reporting that natural gas production company, EQT, has struck a roughly $5.5 billion deal to buy back its former unit Equitrans Midstream in a bid to create a major natural gas provider. The all stock transaction is expected to be announced later today with the combined company set to be valued at more than $35 billion, including debt. The deal comes amid a spate of mergers and acquisitions within the commodity space. As oil and gas companies tried to capitalize on recent years profit gains following higher energy prices. And in apparent effort by the British royal family to address concerns about the health of Princess of Wales Kate Middleton appears to have backfired in dramatic fashion. Several global news agencies have pulled a photo released by the Royal Family showing the Princess alongside her three children with the Associated Press saying that the source appears to have manipulated the image. Reuters, Getty, and AFP have also removed the image from their systems. The image was posted by the Royal Family on social media on Sunday to commemorate Mother's Day in the UK, and marks the first official photo of the Princess since she underwent abdominal surgery in January. Kensington Palace didn't respond to a request for comment. And from unintentional drama to the scripted sort, Oppenheimer cleaned up at last Night's Academy Awards in what Journal Entertainment reporter John Jurgensen told us was a historic sweep. Oppenheimer landed seven awards including Best Picture, Best Actor for Cillian Murphy, and Best Director for Christopher Nolan, his first Oscars. It was the first time in years that a movie that was so dominant at the box office also dominated at the Oscars, which people often criticize for being disconnected from the tastes of regular moviegoers. You have to go back about 20 years to a Lord of the Rings movie to find a best picture winner that grossed anything close to what Oppenheimer did at the box office, which is approaching about $1 billion worldwide. Other highlights of the night included Emma Stone winning Best Actress for her performance in Poor Things, John Cena shuffling on stage to award best Costume design naked, and Ryan Gosling's performance of his Barbie anthem I'm just Ken.He's wearing a hot pink suit and gloves and glasses, and he had a surprisingly good voice as he belted it out live in the theater with dozens of Ken dancers behind him, and pretty much leading the whole Dolby theater and a sing-along, including many of his co-stars that he got on the mic. Televised award shows are fighting for relevance and for viewers, so a high energy night like this that also featured lots of popular movies and their stars in the mix has to be seen as a win for the Academy Awards. I'd be surprised if viewership didn't go up at least a bit from last year.And that's What's News for Monday morning. Today's show was produced by Kate Bullivant and Hattie Moir. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kilhof. And I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. And until then, thanks for listening.