The rematch is set as Biden and Trump clinch their party nominations. Plus house lawmakers prepare to vote on legislation that could ban TikTok in the US. This new bill has a lot of political momentum, and the legislators wrote it in a way that it might better withstand a legal challenge that stopped the other attempts to ban TikTok in the past. And we'll get the latest from Brussels as the EU takes on AI. It's Wednesday, March 13th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. And here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. This year's presidential election is on track to become the first rematch since 1956. That's after President Joe Biden and former president Donald Trump won enough delegates to secure their respective party's presidential nominations after they both won primaries in several states last night, including Georgia, Washington, and Mississippi. Trump will now establish a joint fundraising committee with the Republican National Committee, allowing the campaign to tap bigger contributions as the GOP looks to erase a fundraising deficit with Democrats. We are exclusively reporting that House Republicans are pushing their GOP colleagues to openly talk about their position on abortion, rather than sidestep the issue like many did in previous campaigns. A memo prepared by House Republicans campaign arm and viewed by the Wall Street Journal says the GOP has a brand problem, not a policy problem, telling candidates they must confidently articulate their stance. And that not doing so is the "worst possible solution." Congressional correspondent Natalie Andrews says, "Abortion rights have weighed on the party's success in recent years and will be a key theme in the upcoming election." Republicans say, "Tell voters where you stand. If it's a 15-week abortion ban, if it's a 24-week abortion ban, and that may help you connect to voters where some polls show that maybe they support more abortion rights than say an all-out ban on abortion." It is interesting, because in 2022, a lot of Republicans just didn't want to talk about the issue at all. They shied away. And a lot of them got in trouble because they talked about it in their primary and tried to seem conservative, and then there were all these sound bites from Republican debates floating out there. And then they didn't want to talk about it in the general election when they were up against a Democrat. The guidance will be presented to GOP colleagues tonight as the party kicks off its annual policy retreat in West Virginia. Meanwhile, House Democrats hoping to unstick USAID for Ukraine and Israel, have begun gathering signatures for a so-called discharge petition to force a vote on a more than $95 billion package passed by the Senate, but opposed by house speaker Mike Johnson. The effort requires support from just a simple majority of house members, but Democratic aides say they may need up to two dozen Republicans to back the move given expected Democratic defections over Israel policy. Speaking yesterday, Senate Minority Leader Republican, Mitch McConnell, joined Democrats in calling for swift action on the aid package.Mitch McConnell: Anything that's changed that's sent back here, as you all know, even the simplest thing can take a week in the Senate. We don't have time for all of this. We've got a bill that got 70 votes in the Senate, give members of the House of Representatives an opportunity to vote on it. That's the solution. In a stopgap move yesterday, the Biden administration said it's sending $300 million more in ammunition and other weapons to Ukraine as Congress debates its next steps. It is shaping up to be a critical day for TikTok as the US House of Representatives prepares to vote on legislation that could ban the popular app if it's Beijing-based owner doesn't sell it in the coming months. The bill is expected to pass the House, and possible investors are already circling TikTok. But as journal reporter, Stu Woo, is here to remind us, past efforts to rein in TikTok have hit a variety of hurdles, and this latest effort is far from over. Stu, could you just recap for us what exactly this bill being voted on today would do, and whether this represents maybe a new approach in how lawmakers are considering what to do with TikTok? Sure. The US House is voting on a bill that would force TikTok's parent company, ByteDance, to either sell TikTok within six months, or if it doesn't, then it would effectively ban TikTok in the US. It would make it hard for app stores to offer TikTok. It would make it hard for internet providers to allow TikTok to be accessed in the US. This doesn't exactly represent a new approach in how Congress is approaching this. The main difference is that this new bill has a lot of political momentum, and the legislators wrote it in a way that it might better withstand a legal challenge that stopped the other attempts to ban TikTok in the past. How so? Congress last year introduced a few bills to ban TikTok, but they didn't really gain any momentum. Some of them died because there was political infighting, partisan politics, if you will, and others had some legal concerns that it might violate the First Amendment or other laws. So the legislators, when drafting the language for this bill, they brought in some constitutional experts to make sure, okay, if TikTok does sue to stop this attempt, they want to make sure that it can survive any lawsuit in the courts. How is ByteDance responding to this impending vote? Sure. ByteDance is doing what it has done in previous attempts. Number one, it's sending its lobbyists and its top executive, its CEO, to Congress to talk to lawmakers about why this is a bad idea. It's also mobilizing its TikTok celebrities to go out in public to say, "Hey, you shouldn't do this. We depend on this for our livelihood, and this is about free speech." And also it did one new thing, which is it sent this notification to the phones of people who use TikTok. So when you open the app, it said, "Congress wants to ban us. But if you press a couple buttons right now, you can call your Congress member and complain about this and say, 'Hey, don't do this. Don't ban TikTok.'" We've reported that a sale of TikTok's US operations could fetch hundreds of billions of dollars, and yet it doesn't sound like that's something the company is engaging with. Sure, that's right. So yeah, TikTok could be worth tens or hundreds of billions of dollars. It has more than 170 million users in the US. But the issue here is that we don't think that ByteDance's owners, their Chinese co-founders, want to sell TikTok. And even if they wanted to, the Chinese government could stop that. The Chinese governments has export controls over TikTok's algorithm, the thing that shows you what video comes up next when you access TikTok. And that's up to the Chinese government to decide, okay, ByteDance, you aren't or are allowed to sell TikTok. So even if ByteDance were to agree to a sale, that too could be easier said than done. Yeah, there's a lot of complicated things here. So number one, does somebody want to buy TikTok? Now, my colleagues have reported that there are some potential buyers circling the wagons right now. TikTok could be really expensive. They have more than 170 million users. There's only a few companies out there that have the kind of money to buy them. The second problem with that is that there could be some anti-dress issues, especially in this Biden administration environments right now where they have been eager to stop big mergers. So a company that could afford to buy TikTok might face those concerns. All right, so should this bill clear the House, Stu, it's then onto the Senate. What would we be watching for there? So today the bill is widely expected to pass the US House. Both legislative aides and TikTok employees themselves believe that will happen easily. But both sides also think that when it goes to the Senate, it's going to face a much trickier path. No one knows what's going to happen there. And some senators, like Rand Paul of Kentucky, have already come out and said, "We shouldn't ban TikTok." So a couple of senators could try to delay the bill. And another tricky thing is that the Senate might make some changes to the bill, then it would have to go back to the House. So there's definitely a far less clear path in the Senate compared with the US House today. And finally, Stu, even if this bill does clear Congress, the House and the Senate, and President Biden signs it as he said he would do. Another X factor here could be the courts, right, Stu? For instance, we saw a judge block a Montana bill that banned TikTok from going into effect, that too could be an outcome of all of this. Yeah, absolutely. So TikTok has indicated that they believe that this bill does amount to a ban, and that it would violate the First Amendment rights of its users. Now, that said, this bill was written by legislators with that in mind. So they brought in constitutional experts to write the language in a way that they think this would survive a court challenge on those grounds. So we'll see. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal reporter, Stu Woo. Stu, thanks so much. Thanks, Luke. Coming up, historic new AI regulations are set to be approved today in Europe. We'll get the latest from Brussels, and look at the insights that a nearly $190 million diet study aims to unlock after the break. European Union lawmakers today are set to formally sign off on sweeping new rules on artificial intelligence. The Journal's Kim Mackrael is in Brussels. Kim, I understand that if all goes is planned today, the EU AI Act could go into effect later this year. Tell us what that bill would do. Yeah, so it's a pretty sweeping piece of legislation, and I think it's broadly being seen as a world first. Because although some other jurisdictions have pieces of AI legislation, this is thought to be, at least in the Western world, the first broad comprehensive attempt to legislate on artificial intelligence. And it covers quite a bit. I think maybe just thinking about it in three broad categories, there's prohibitions on certain behaviors. And so an example of that is using emotion recognition in the workplace or in a school environment. There are some new transparency rules for general purpose AI. And there are requirements for companies that make AI systems that are deemed to be high risk, to test and to do reporting on those systems. And Kim, there are also provisions in here for so-called deepfakes and around police use of AI, right? That's right. So for deepfakes, the idea is under the legislation, a deepfake, a manipulated photo of an existing place or people, that is supposed to be labeled as having been artificially manipulated. For policing, one of the ways this will take effect is a ban that exists on real-time biometric surveillance, but there are some narrow exemptions for how law enforcement can use some of these tools under fairly specific circumstances. And Kim, how is industry responding to this, the big tech companies that run many of these AI services? So there was quite a bit of lobbying. Some of the legislators who worked on this have said it was their biggest experience of lobbying, having worked on legislation over years. So there was quite a lot of interest, and a lot of lobbying from lobby groups that represent AI companies and from the AI companies themselves. There had been some threats last year about the possibility of AI companies simply not providing their products to the European market. As far as we're aware, there are no threats on the table along those lines now. And I think what you've seen is a lot of AI companies broadly accept that there will be some form of regulation. They've tried to influence what that will look like. I think there's some acceptance that the EU version of this regulation is coming through. There's not a lot that they can change about that now. They do have some time to adapt to it. One particular company's comment that might be helpful in thinking about how companies are responding to this is from Mistral AI, which is a French AI company, heavily involved in lobbying in relation to the AI Act. And their CEO had some concerns about what it would require companies to do. And he said recently after changes were made to the text, it would be a manageable burden for the company. He still thinks it goes farther than he would like it to, but he considers it to be manageable. That was the Journal's Kim Mackrael in Brussels. Kim, thanks so much. Thank you. Thanks so much. And finally, ultra-processed foods may not only affect our bodies, but our brains as well. That's according to new research that suggests that ultra-processed foods such as chips, snack bars, and breakfast cereals may be linked to changes in the way that we learn, remember, and feel. And it builds on recent studies that had already found that high-fat and sugar diets synonymous with many processed foods can increase the risk of depression and poorer memory performance. This comes as The National Institutes of Health has kicked off its most ambitious nutrition research project to date. And WSJ consumer health reporter, Andrea Petersen, told us that the $189 million study aims to look at how different people respond to different diets. Sometimes the advice is conflicting. Remember the low-fat movement, which was really found to actually not be healthy. So people can tend to be confused about what is actually the best thing for them, so that's part of the problem. Also, the chronic diseases related to our diets are on the rise. Scientists believe that actually people might be much more willing to follow a healthy diet if they're actually seeing that, "Oh, hey, my blood sugar has gone down. My blood pressure has gone down because I'm following this diet." The NIH hopes the study will eventually enable Americans to receive personalized diet advice from their doctors. And that is What's News for Wednesday morning. Today's show was produced by Kate Bullivant and Hattie Moir. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kilhof. And I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. And until then, thanks for listening.