The State of New York could move to seize Donald Trump's assets today, as the former president runs out of time to dodge a $454 million penalty. Plus, Russia reckons with one of its deadliest terror attacks in decades. What this does is put anti-terrorism efforts right, back, front and center in terms of what not just Russia has to be thinking about, but Europe as well. And CEO pay rides the stock market wave. It's Monday, March 25th. I'm Luke Vargas for The Wall Street Journal, and here is the am edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. Former president Donald Trump has failed to come up with the $454 million needed to cover a judgment against him in a New York civil fraud case. And with his grace period running out today, the state could now move to seize his assets. Trump failed to get a court to put the penalty on pause while he continues to challenge the ruling, and his legal team has said that securing a bond to cover it was "virtually impossible." State Attorney General Letitia James, who originally brought the fraud case, has already laid some of the groundwork to seize some of Trump's assets, registering a judgment in Westchester County, the location of one of Trump's properties. Such moves could put in jeopardy the marquee buildings and golf courses on which Trump built his reputation. Though James could also seek to seize Trump's accounts at financial institutions. Well, in case you missed it, the US managed to avoid a government shutdown over the weekend after the Senate approved a $1.2 trillion funding package that President Biden was quick to sign into law. After months of congressional drama, leaders in both parties described scoring wins in negotiations with Democrats saying they had fended off cuts to education, labor, and health programs, while Republicans said they had successfully reduced spending on foreign aid and nonprofit groups that helped migrants as well as clawing back funding from the IRS. However, the bipartisan coalition that speaker, Mike Johnson, relied on to push the spending package over the finish line could soon face a fresh test with the House expected to take on long stalled legislation to fund Ukraine and Israel that enjoys broad support on both sides of the aisle, but which many Republicans staunchly oppose. Meanwhile, senior Israeli officials are due to visit Washington in the coming days to present their plans for continuing the fight against Hamas in Gaza. The Biden Administration is hoping to persuade the delegation to avoid a full ground invasion of the crowded border City of Rafah. However, prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appears set on the idea and has said that Israel would press ahead with or without US support. Correspondent, Dov Lieber, in Tel Aviv has the latestDov Lieber: With Israeli Defense Minister, Yoav Gallant, in Washington this week. What we need to look out for is whether there'll be some kind of proposal from the American side that the Israelis will find suitable for their needs in Rafah. There are thousands of militants in Rafah that Israel wants to arrest, kill, or capture, and at the same time, it wants to have some kind of control over the border between the Sinai Peninsula and the Gaza Strip. And the Israelis think that they need a very large operation to get it done. The Americans are looking for something a little more tactical, and it's a major question whether this can be bridged between them. Russia is continuing to mourn the deaths of over 130 people who were killed Friday at a concert hall near Moscow in the deadliest episode of terrorism in the country in decades. The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the assault and assessment backed up by the United States. But within Russia, the official line is more complicated as President Vladimir Putin seeks to connect the attack to Ukraine. Journal correspondent, Thomas Grove, has been monitoring the response to Friday's attack. Thomas, bring us up to speed. What do we know about what occurred on Friday several days on now? The attack started out with gunmen entering the foyer of the Crocus City Hall and shooting straight into the crowd really. A fire was unleashed from various smoke bombs and lighter fluid, and the place went up like a match, unfortunately. The very night of the attack, there were four suspects who were caught in Bryansk region which abuts Belarus and Ukraine. So now we are four days later, rescue teams are still sifting through the rubble. Looking for the bodies now of people who are maybe under there. In terms of who was responsible for this, Thomas, what has Russia had to say? I think Russia is not entirely clear as to how to present this attack. First and foremost, it was warned almost two weeks in advance about this attack by the United States, and it was publicly dismissed by Vladimir Putin the very week of the attack. And so this obviously points to major security blunders on the part of the Russian authorities. So the day after the attack, Putin came out on state television and said that this was an attack that was perhaps not orchestrated by... He didn't blame Ukraine directly, but he said that there was preliminary evidence that said that Ukraine was giving the attackers room to enter into Ukraine. We should note, Thomas, that Putin offered no evidence to back up that assertion and Ukraine has denied any involvement in the attack. Western governments, meanwhile, have also rejected those accusations, calling them malicious propaganda. Turning to the Islamic State here though, they have claimed responsibility for the attack, a claim backed up by the US, which has pinned the blame on a branch of the group based in Afghanistan known as ISI-K. What significance would that have? Why would they be targeting Russia? ISIS-K is an interesting organization in the sense that it conflates a lot of the regional animus towards Russia in one group. You have people that came into ISIS from Chechnya, from the North Caucasus, which had a long-running conflict with Russia on its own territory. You have central Asians that feel as though Moscow has been this overlord in the region as the root of all evil. And then you have just other Islamist groups as well that feel as though Russia as a Christian orthodox country that believes in traditional values and Putin makes no secret of his religiosity. And Moscow is just as much of a target as Germany is or the United States would be or other countries seen as Christian and Western. For a broader audience outside of Russia, does this also mean we should now be paying more attention to the Islamic state? They were highly in focus several years ago, but it sort of slipped off the radar a little bit. I think with the rise of Russia and China, a lot of our security positioning has been focused on great power competition. And so I think what this does is put anti-terrorism efforts right back front and center in terms of what, not just Russia has to be thinking about, but Europe as well. ISIS-K was also trying to launch attacks in Germany, for example. So it's not just Russia that's in the crosshairs here, it's broadly the west. Yeah. We have previously reported Thomas that European security agencies have thwarted several plots by Islamic state in recent months. It just begs the question, what should we be watching for next, Thomas, both within Russia and more broadly? Well, I think first and foremost, we have to think about Paris and the Olympics coming up. And this is a huge event and a lot of attention is going to be paid to it, not just by media organizations like ourselves, but also organizations like ISIS-K. And inside Russia, this attack has echoes of previous attacks that we've seen in the late 1990s and throughout the 2000s. Those attacks strengthened Putin's hand and we saw a subsequent crackdown on society following them. I think what we could see this time around is something very similar, possibly another crackdown on the few remnants of civil society and civic liberties that Russians still have. And on top of it, if Russia tries to link this more tightly with Ukraine, it wouldn't be difficult to see another mass mobilization or further moves that could try to strengthen Russia's position on the battlefield. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal correspondent, Thomas Grove. Thomas, thank you so much for the update. Sure, thank you. Coming up, CEOs cash in after last year's stock market rally and we've got a bitter update on commodity prices. That's after the break. Last year, chipmaker, Broadcom, awarded its Chief Executive Hock Tan with a $161 million stock award, instantly landing him among the highest paid CEOs. But now that award could swell to $1.3 billion thanks to a surge in the company's share price. The gains are revealed, thanks to new rules requiring companies to disclose how much executives equity awards changed in value during the year. And WSJ Europe finance reporter, Patricia Kowsmann, said tan is not an exception among CEOs in seeing a surge in the value of their pay packages. If you remember last year, the stock market did really well. So the S&P 500 index, for example, it gained 24%. And if you think about the biggest gainers, there are a lot of technology companies. Overall, an analysis that the Journal did found that pay for the top executives at 187 S&P 500 companies race towards a new high year rebounding from a bit of a sluggish growth in 2022 because the stock markets didn't do very well. And we'll have a lot more on executive compensation later in the spring when the journal publishes a full ranking of S&P 500 CEO pay. And while we're all used to CEOs getting paid, what about college athletes? The March Madness Basketball Tournament is in high gear, and increasingly so too is a unionization push in college athletics led by students at Dartmouth. And we want to know what questions you have about how that could reshape everything from the future of American higher education to professional sports. So send us a note or even better record a voice memo on your phone and send that to us at WNpod@wsj.com. That's WNpod@wsj.com. Or leave us a voicemail at 212-416-4328. Just be sure to include your name and location because we might use it on the show. And finally, your sweet tooth might start costing you more than usual as the price of cocoa reaches new records. Chocolate's main ingredient has gotten more expensive, thanks to extreme weather with the El Nino phenomenon, bringing unusually wet conditions and strong winds to West Africa that combined to cause severe crop shortages. Cocoa prices ended last week, a whopping 42% above the previous record set in 1977, and our commodities reporter, Ryan Dezember, has more. Demand is still rising. While this year's crop is so much lower, which is going to eat into the world supplies, companies that make chocolate or use a lot of chocolate in their recipes, they're going to probably have to manage through this with higher prices. Big companies, Hershey's, Mondelez, they're all telling their investors this is going to be a problem for us going forward, and could it eat into profits a little bit. The companies that really rely on chocolate, stock market analysts are saying, watch out for their shares because they're going to be needing to raise prices and continue what we call shrinkflation. And that's What's News for Monday morning. Today's show was produced by Hattie Moir and Kate Bullivant. Cristina Roca was our supervising producer. And I'm Luke Vargas for The Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. And until then, thanks for listening.