  Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. Boeing is in talks to buy troubled jet fuselage supplier spirit aerosystems. And Elon Musk suits OpenAI, saying it abandoned its founding mission. If this case makes it to court, I mean we could see a courtroom debate over pretty abstract concepts like how dangerous is AI and what constitutes so-called artificial general intelligence and does chat GPT already meet that threshold. Plus, shares of New York Community Bank Corps Psync, reviving worries about the stability of regional banks. It's Friday March 1st. I'm Anne Marie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. Boeing is in talks to acquire spirit aerosystems, the troubled jet fuselage supplier at the center of quality issues affecting 737 MAX jets. People familiar with the matter say spirits hired bankers to explore strategic options and has had preliminary discussions with Boeing, though they may not result in a deal. A tie-up would mark a strategic reversal for Boeing, which split off from spirit two decades ago. The supplier has been beset by production issues. Spirits also exploring selling operations in Ireland that make parts for Boeing's chief rival Airbus. CBS and Walgreens will begin selling the abortion pill Miffa Pristone in the coming weeks. The pharmacy chain said today they received certification to dispense the pills after a regulatory shift last year that allows brick and mortar pharmacies to offer the pill with a prescription. The pharmacies said the pill wouldn't be offered in states that don't allow legal access to abortion through 10 weeks, nor would they be available via mail order. The pill is at the center of litigation before the Supreme Court, which will consider whether the food and drug administration properly loosened restrictions around it. President Biden says the U.S. will begin air-dropping humanitarian aid to Gaza in the next few days to help bring relief to Palestinians caught in the Israel-Hamas war. Biden spoke from the Oval Office earlier today. The announcement comes after a chaotic series of events involving a convoy of aid trucks in the Gaza Strip yesterday, where Israeli troops opened fire on civilians. The Israeli military and Palestinian witnesses gave conflicting accounts. Gaza health officials said more than 100 Palestinians were killed and hundreds more injured. Palestinians said Israeli troops opened fire on civilians. Israeli officials said Palestinians were trampled to death by panicked crowds or run over by aid truck drivers trying to escape the chaos, and that Palestinian gunmen had also opened fire. The U.S. officials said the plan to drop relief supplies into Gaza signals U.S. recognition that current efforts to address the humanitarian crisis haven't been sufficient and reflects the pressure on President Biden to act. Shares of regional lender New York Community Bank Corp fell over 25 percent today. After the bank disclosed problems with controls, took a $2.4 billion charge and replaced its CEO. Markets reporter Gina Hebe has more details. The U.S. officials said the plan to drop relief supplies into Gaza is already a big concern because that sector is under pressure. NYCB's troubles revived fears about the stability of regional banks a year after a string of high-profile failures. Coming up, why Elon Musk is suing open AI and its CEO Sam Altman, and what it could mean for the future of the technology after the break. Hey what's news fans, listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? That's right, all your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music Add Free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown Add Free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most Add Free top podcasts so we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your prime membership. To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free or visit amazon.com slash what's news. That's amazon.com slash what's news. It's just that easy. Silicon Valley investors and startups are joining the race for hypersonic weapons, which the US military has struggled to figure out China and Russia already have them ready for use on the battlefield. Hypersonic aircraft and weapons travel at least five times the speed of sound or 3,800 miles an hour. Venture capitalists have invested more than $500 million into US startups working on the systems in the past two years. That's according to a Wall Street Journal analysis of data from pitch book technology and national security reporter Heather Somerville told our tech news briefing podcast. This is a big pivot for VCs. It's really notable for a couple of reasons going back the past two decades or so really since the dot com boom. If you just look at hardware, difficult, expensive hardware systems, not even with military applications. That's not been a sector where there's been tremendous venture capital interest. Software is eating the world as Mark Andreessen said and the dollars followed software. They followed social media consumer facing apps and business facing software. That's really been the focus of VC for the past couple decades. The second reason it's notable is just it's probably one of the most ambitious and unlikely ventures into this military tech space. As VC gets more deep into defense tech, this is really quite a stunning evolution in their enthusiasm for building tech that they hope the military will buy. Defense Department spokesman said the Pentagon's hypersonic strategy isn't based on trying to match China or Russia and it shouldn't be compared with any other country. Along simmering feud between tech industry titans is escalating this time over the future of artificial intelligence billionaire Elon Musk has sued open AI and its CEO Sam Altman. The big allegation Musk claims they broke the AI company's founding agreement by giving priority to profit over the benefits to humanity. The lawsuit filed late yesterday in San Francisco pits one of the world's richest people, Musk, against the world's most valuable company, Microsoft, a major backer of open AI. The battle also touches on a core debate over AI. How scared should we be as the technologies capabilities grow? Here now with more is Wall Street Journal technology reporter Sam Schechner. Sam, thank you for being here. Always a pleasure. Sam, could you remind us of Elon Musk's history with open AI and what he's after with this lawsuit? Well, Elon Musk is one of the founders of open AI along with Sam Altman and others. He was started in part as a counterweight to Google, which was very powerful in AI at the time. And also was based in part in Musk's idea that AI could become very dangerous to humanity and should be controlled by an entity that is serving all humans, not just the for profit interests of one company. Now, as the lawsuit portrays it, Elon over time started to clash with Sam Altman and others over becoming for profit, finding other ways to make money. He thought that that wasn't a good idea according to the lawsuit. And eventually in 2018, he stepped down from the company's board. And he continued to supply funding, but he drifted away from the company and now has a rival company called XAI. So he is a competitor with open AI at this point. Does that play some role in motivating this lawsuit? That's hard to say. It's certainly not in the text of the lawsuit, but it's not unusual for commercial competitors to attack each other in court. Musk didn't respond to a request for comment. How are open AI and Sam Altman responding? Well, open AI declined to comment on the lawsuit, but Sam Altman has said that the company takes its safety application seriously and that the technology should be developed with great caution. The company still stands by its mission to make AI for the benefit of humanity. I think they would say that there's a free version of chat GPT for everyone to use. As for Microsoft, Microsoft isn't a party to the lawsuit. And finally, Sam, what is that stake here? The allegations in Musk's lawsuit really get to the heart of the debate over AI that's going on among policymakers, people in the tech industry, and sort of the public at large. Well, if this case makes it to court, I mean, we could see a courtroom debate over pretty abstract concepts like how dangerous is AI and what constitutes so-called artificial general intelligence and does chat GPT already meet that threshold? Those are the kinds of allegations that are made, and if Musk gets his way, open AI could be ordered to become a nonprofit or Microsoft could lose its license to use the most advanced version of chat GPT. There's a long way to go between now and such a court order. You know, lawsuits often shoot for the moon when it comes to what they're asking for in terms of relief. And there could be a settlement. There could be plenty of other things in between, but it would certainly be fun if we saw Sam Altman taking a stand and answering some of these questions. That's Wall Street Journal Technology reporter Sam Schechner. And finally, Wendy's got a lot of negative attention this week after a slew of news articles saying the fast food chain was implementing surge pricing. It all started with a mid-February earnings call where the company's new CEO, Kirk Tanner, said Wendy's would begin testing features like dynamic pricing as early as next year. The detail was pretty much glossed over at the time, but led to quite a backlash this week when headlines began comparing Wendy's strategy to that of ride-hailing company Uber, which raises prices due to heavy demand. It all forced Wendy's to put out a statement of saying it wouldn't beef up prices for burgers and disavowing that it intends to use surge pricing. Our heard on the street columnist Spencer Jacobs says it probably could have been handled better. Search pricing is something you think of with ticket master or Uber also airlines airlines have done it for decades. It's a fairly normal thing. Dynamic pricing is a more sort of benign word for it, but it happens in all industries. And for some reason, people seized on this and so we know Wendy's came out and said no, we will not be raising prices during busy times. I don't think they expected to have a PR blowback, but there's a way to frame things that are positive. So yes, Wendy's is now focusing on better deals for customers. It says new digital menus could allow it to offer discounts at slower times. And that's what's news for this week. Today's show was produced by Pierre Biennay and Anthony Bansy, what's news is hosted by me, Anne Marie for Tolley and Luke Vargas. Additional support this week from Tally Arbell, Julie Chang and Alex Osula. Michael Laval wrote our theme music. Our supervising producers are Sandra Kielhoff and Michael Kusmediis. Aisha Almuslim is our development producer. Scott Saloway and Chris Sinsley are our deputy editors. And Philana Patterson is the Wall Street Journal's Head of News Audio. Tomorrow you can look out for our weekly markets wrap up what's news in markets. Then on Sunday we'll be answering your questions about social media's influence on kids on what's news Sunday. We'll be back with our regular show on Monday morning. Thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.