 Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. Hey what's news listeners, it's Sunday March 10th. I'm Ann Marie for Tolley. And to I'm Luke Vargas for The Wall Street Journal. And this is What's News Sunday, the show where we tackle the big questions about the biggest stories in the news by reaching out to our colleagues across the newsroom to help explain what's happening in our world. This week we're looking into the streaming wars and what they mean for the future of entertainment and for you. Streaming, or at least the promise of streaming, was to make our lives simpler and give us more choice about what we wanted to watch and when. But streaming's become a lot more complicated since it started. Not to mention more expensive. There are now tons of places to stream with all the biggest players in the game like Apple, Warner Brothers Discovery, Disney, Hulu, and Netflix. According to Real Good, which aggregates data from streaming platforms, there are nearly 40,000 TV shows and films to choose from. And that's only from the eight largest streamers. We asked you to share your thoughts on streaming, its future, and how it's changing your viewing habits. And we're going to get to those comments and questions with our Los Angeles Bureau Sarah Kraus. Welcome Sarah. Thanks for having me. So Sarah, here's how I typically stream. First, I try to remember what service is carrying what I want to see. Sometimes I watch that show if I can find it. But often I'm distracted by all of the other options. Then I can't decide what to watch, so I end up playing a bunch of trailers. And by then I usually feel like I've watched a good amount of TV and I go to bed. What about you Sarah? What are your streaming habits? I go really deep, so I like to do a full binge. If I'm going down the path, I want to go all the way down it. So I spent quite a lot of time this weekend watching feud on Hulu, the Capote versus the swans. I sort of looked at the clock after and thought, oh geez, that was quite a lot of hours. So I tend to really fully commit. I get less enjoyment out of it when I do what you describe. It makes me feel frustrated and that I'm not getting value. So I try to really decide what my mission is at execute it fully. Okay, and we're going to get into more listener and consumer habits. But first I want to talk about a relatively new trend you reported on. And that is consumers cancelling their streaming subscriptions. Does that have to do with the price hikes we've seen introduced by a number of streaming services? So you see customers starting to get to a point where they're streaming budget where they are realizing that it's approaching what cable used to be or just starting to feel really expensive and meaty. And so they're saying, what do I actually need? What am I actually spending my time on? And because those streamers have raised prices, they have kept the simplicity of being able to easily turn them on and off. A lot more consumers have gotten Savvier about saying, you know what, I'm going to binge this on Hulu and then I'm going to turn it off or I'm going to binge this next season on Netflix. And then I won't need it again for two months until this next show comes out. So I think much Savvier consumer has emerged and also with inflation and just the rising cost of living households are saying, how much am I actually spending on entertainment? And am I getting full value out of it? And it seems like prices certainly are a big factor, but not the only one. Here's some insight we got from Samantha Tassillo. I really treat streaming services as my own personal library of movies that I watch over and over again. My favorite holiday rom comes, the Harry Potter movies, the sitcom The Office. And so I pay a lot of attention to those leaving soon tabs that I see that pop up on Netflix and Max. So Sarah, what role is content playing and how consumers choose what to subscribe to? Content really is the number one thing. That is what makes consumers feel like they're getting a lot of good bang for their buck when they think about how they've spent their time or what shows have resonated. That is often the thing that dictates the decision that they make. When I talk to folks about why they've canceled the main answer is, well, I haven't watched anything there in a while or they haven't really had anything for me. So content is really what wags the dog on it and you see streamers trying to get that right with a balance of the sort of evergreen or library content that people love to return to the office, Seinfeld Harry Potter, the things that are real comfort watches, balancing that with new content, the white notices, the last of us, the things that become talkers that you want to have seen to be up on pop culture and discuss with your friends. There's just so much content though. It can feel like you often spend your leisure time just choosing what not to watch. One of our listeners, Margot Christy, says she eliminates that burden of choices. I like to call it by sticking to one service. I tend to just go to Netflix to watch things because it's extremely annoying to me to have to bounce around between prime and other options that exist. I'd rather just limit my viewing choices and have it be simple. Sarah, I mean, a services like Amazon Prime, for example, you can access a couple of other streaming services from that platform. Is there anyone right now trying to streamline the streaming process? So maybe someone like Margot can watch everything in one place? Yeah, so this is an interesting pain point in the streaming world. It remains really fragmented. There are certainly companies like Amazon, YouTube, Apple to a degree that are trying to become more of the gatekeepers, but there are lots of reasons why certain streamers may not want to do that. They want to have their app alone be the destination for streaming to not have consumers start their journey elsewhere. So this is really an unresolved issue for many like the smart TV screen is the best shot at a landing page, but it's not terribly searchable. It's not really the dream version of it. You know, that's why I get stuck watching all these trailers. I can't make a decision or I can't navigate to where I need to be. I've heard other solutions from WSJ commenters as well. You mentioned how some subscribe to a particular service for a month just to binge that certain show and then cancel. And then you see companies releasing episodes on a weekly schedule to try to keep subscribers on board. It seems like a sort of game of chicken who's going to outsmart whom the consumer or the streamer? Yes, there is a bit of that happening. And you see Netflix embrace more of the two part drops. So it's less weekly releases and more releasing chunks at a time with weeks or even a couple months in between. So that's a strategy that has worked for them and the goal is keeping me as a love his blind watcher on the hook for the weeks in between part one and part two with a lot of the HBO or max streaming shows. There have been weekly drops. You saw it with House of Dragons, White Lotus, other shows like that where they like the Sunday appointment viewing. They want that like busy release on a Sunday night. The people planned the end of their weekend around. So Sarah, I want to come back to something you mentioned a little earlier and I'm really glad you did because I say this over and over, but it feels like we're just coming right back to the same issues we had with cable only now. It's somehow even tougher to keep track of what's available and where at least for me. Are we just circling right back around a cable TV? In some ways, it feels like that. The proliferation of streaming services. And also I would say the evolution of sports viewing is part of that as well. It can be really hard to piece together the full bundle of games and league access that you want to have a holistic viewing experience. So some people find themselves paying for multiple sports streaming services or options or, you know, an MVPD like YouTube TV or Hulu TV Live as well as Netflix or Max or Disney Plus. And so when you start to piece all of that together, the bill really starts to climb. So how are companies trying to keep up with consumers and turn a profit? We'll talk more about how they're responding to shifting consumer habits after the break. Now to how these changing consumer habits impact streaming services. Industry wide, the rate of customer defections rose to 6% at the end of January. That's up from 5.2% a year earlier. So, turn as we call it sort of casually is on the rise. And companies are trying to figure out how to combat that. Others have offered discounted service if people go to cancel. They'll say, hey, do you want to continue for two or three months or six months at a lower rate? Or, you know, here's a couple of free months. So you see all these different levers that different platforms are trying to pull. So let's talk about how companies are responding to such varied consumer behavior. Here's a really interesting example from Sam Rotenberg who isn't in it for the visuals. I tend to skew to shows that are more audibly interesting as I'm walking around the house. I find myself listening to shows more often than I used to instead of just sitting there and watching them. So I think this is really interesting because we're not even talking about a consumer watching habit. We're talking about listening. How do companies get a grasp on this streaming company? It's on such a wide range of consumer behavior and how we're not only seeing and viewing, but listening too. Yeah, this is a real area of interest for them in understanding when and how consumers are using their service. That it's not as obvious as I throw it up on my living room TV screen. For some people, you know, increasingly I've heard lately they listen to Netflix when they're going to bed. That it's something that helps them fall asleep at night. For young people, there's often multiple screens involved in multiple forms of entertainment happening at once. So really understanding the way in which consumers are accessing this is important for streamers to understand the utility of their services and who is more likely to churn versus stay because the service has become part of their daily lives or not. Looking forward and shifting gears just a bit, Sarah, one of our commenters, Robert Strine said, teenagers might not even be watching these services soon. Is that a concern for streamers or are the kids these days going somewhere else? Yeah, the kids do get their entertainment in a lot of other places. So for these streaming services, they are competing with the other ways that people spend their downtime for young people. That could be YouTube. It could be Twitch. It could be Roblox. It could be video games and virtual worlds where there's deep engagement, a lot of time spent, a lot of live friend connections. I don't think it's a coincidence that Netflix is pushing into gaming. It's yet another offering and another way to keep people coming to their platform. So there is real competition for attention, particularly among the young people that are the next generation of Netflix subscribers. We've also seen what I think looks like more consolidation in this space. We've seen mergers between streaming libraries, like Discovery and HBO. Then we've seen this mega-sport merger with Disney's ESPN, Fox and Warner Brothers Discovery coming together to make this new sports streaming service, which you mentioned earlier. Do you think we're likely to see more consolidation? Is this another way forward for streaming? Yes, we are absolutely in the phase of consolidation and bundling. So you've seen a lot of rival streamers do bundles sometimes for just their ad tiers of service where consumers can get two services, basically, for a lower rate than if they were to pay for each separately. So we went through the sort of era of the bundle and now the sports JV that you're describing goes one step further, which is Disney, Warner Brothers and Fox bringing their sports rights together in one consolidated offering that they will charge one monthly fee for. And those sports events haven't previously been available in streaming. So that's acknowledgement that cable is in decline. These companies need to successfully pivot to streaming, but they may be better off doing it together and consolidating their offerings as cable numbers continue to come down. So these conversations are happening industry wide now. How do we form partnerships that are mutually beneficial? These are not mergers and acquisitions, but it's finding streaming ventures that work and that help them both with their respective business goals. Sarah, is the successful business model for streaming services changing? I would say at a high level, we are still very much in flux. A lot of these companies are dealing with legacy cable businesses that are in structural decline and their fortunes are changing much faster than expected. And so you see a real scramble to figure out how to build streaming businesses profitably for the long term. And it's something that a lot of companies are grappling with. Netflix is really the most profitable and successful streamer at this point. It doesn't have a legacy cable business. It's really leaned into the advanced tech and algorithm that's good at predicting what people like. They've executed the password sharing crackdown. They've been able to roll out the ad tier. Netflix is on pretty good footing. And when you look at its share price relative to other studios, it's like off to the races and really is had a strong showing. Whereas Disney, Warner and Paramount are the entertainment companies that are really struggling with those legacy cable businesses. They have studios that they're still working to turn out hits that do well at the box office. So there's a lot of structural and competitive shifts that they are dealing with in this moment. And I think you'll continue to see the streaming options available to consumers evolve in pricing in breadth in partnerships and bundles in the coming year. I've been speaking with our Los Angeles Bureau Chief Sarah Kraus about streaming and the future of streaming. Sarah, thank you so much for joining me. Thank you. And that's it for what's news Sunday, March 10th. Today's show was produced by Charlotte Gartenberg and Anthony Bansi, with supervising producer Michael Cosmides and deputy editors Scott Saloway and Chris Sinsley. I'm Amary for Tolley. We'll be back on Monday morning with a new show. Thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.