uke Vargas: European intelligence services warn of a new terror threat linked to Iran and the Gaza war. They were posing as refugees, but they had automatic rifles, they had pistols, they had ammunition, and on their mobile phones they had pictures of Jewish and Israeli targets in Europe. Plus the Prime Minister of Haiti agrees to resign as violence rages in the Caribbean nation. And Chinese EV giant BYD struggles with its overseas expansion amid a slew of quality control issues. It's Tuesday, March 12th. I'm Luke Vargas for The Wall Street Journal. And here is the AM edition of What's News. The top headlines and business stories moving your world today. We begin in Haiti where embattled Prime Minister Ariel Henry has agreed to resign as violence rages on in the Caribbean nation. Henry, who has been holed up in Puerto Rico and unable to return to Haiti will reportedly step aside once a transitional council and interim leader are named, moves that are meant to set in motion in election as quickly as possible. Irfaan Ali is the President of Guyana and Chairman of the Caribbean Community, a political and economic union that along with the US has been calling for a transition of power in a bid to stabilize Haiti. Whatever we do must be what the Haitian people want of us. That is the important point. It is not what we want, it is what the Haitian people want of us. What we exercise leadership as a region in being proactive. However, Haiti faces a challenging return back to stability as Caribbean leaders navigate engagement with the country's powerful gangs. US spy agencies say that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's leadership is in jeopardy and that Israel will have difficulty eliminating Hamas. That is according to the US's Annual Threat Assessment, which said that distrust of Netanyahu's ability to rule has deepened and that a different, more moderate government is a possibility. That report comes as Netanyahu's leadership is facing pressure from within Israel's war cabinet, which includes rivals including Defense Minister Yoav Gallant and Benny Gantz, the leader of the National Unity Party, whom polls suggest would win if an election was held now. The assessment also found that Israel is likely to face lingering armed resistance from Hamas for years to come, and that the military will struggle to neutralize Hamas' underground infrastructure, which allows insurgents to hide, regain strength and surprise Israeli forces. Meanwhile, we are exclusively reporting that authorities in Europe are warning of a different threat linked to Iran and the Israel-Hamas war. Correspondent Bojan Pancevski told me that after a wave of terror attacks hit Europe starting in 2015, that were largely inspired by the Islamic State, security services in several countries are now monitoring threats coming from a growing list of new sources. There is a growing threat from actors such as Iran and its proxies in the Middle East, notably Hamas. This is what intelligence agencies are telling me. And there are a number of conspiracies involving Iranian sleeper agents who had been sent into Europe as refugees, et cetera, plotting to kill Jewish people or attack Israeli targets. Now the same is happening with Hamas, and this is extremely worrying because Hamas has never been known to try and do stuff like that here in Europe. Rather, the group has been using Europe as a hub for financing, hiding its fighters for logistics, et cetera. Now, apparently they've started planning attacks themselves, which is a new level of escalation. Bojan, I know we don't color code terror threats anymore, but just how seriously should we be taking this threat? Well, from my conversations, if there were a color code, it would be red. Late last year in December, there was a string of arrests of Hamas operatives who had been apparently dispatched to actually execute some of these attacks to target Jewish communities. They've tapped into a secret stash of weapons that was put there by Hamas some time ago. So it is quite serious. Similarly, with operatives from Iran, operatives from the IS. These groups, they don't work together necessarily, but they pose a combined convergent threat, the kind of which we haven't actually seen in Europe. That was Journal Correspondent Bojan Pancevski. Coming up. After overtaking Tesla, Chinese car maker BYD is finding that its rapid growth at home doesn't necessarily translate into success overseas. Plus we'll look ahead to today's U.S. inflation report. Those stories and more after the break. Today's U.S. inflation report will be front of mind for investors and for the Fed, who will be parsing the data for clues on where the economy's headed and what that means for us interest rates. Quentin Webb is the Journal's Deputy Finance Editor for Europe. On a core basis, CPI has seen up 0.3% this month. February overall, CPI has seen up 0.4%. This comes soon after the February jobs report. The headline figure was a bit stronger than expected, but then at the same time we had some revisions downwards. Previous months wage growth slowed a bit, so we do seem to be headed towards this point where both the labor market and inflation are in a state where the Fed feels comfortable to start cutting rates. Now, almost no one expects that to be at this meeting in March, but it could be in one of the coming meetings later in the spring or early summer. The February inflation report is due out at 8:30 AM Eastern. US aluminum producer, Alcoa, is buying Alumina in a deal that values the Australian company's equity at roughly $2.2 billion. That follows weeks of talks over an offer that will help to cement Alcoa as one of the world's largest bauxite and Alumina producers. The deal represents a bet on commodities expected to play an essential role in the energy transition and comes as the mining industry has experienced a recent flurry of mergers and acquisitions. Alumina expects shareholders to vote on the deal in the third quarter. And Apple may have ended its quest to build an electric vehicle earlier this year, but that doesn't mean that other phone makers can't take on the challenge. Well, China's Xiaomi, best known for its popular smartphones and home appliances, is set to do just that later this month, launching a four door EV sedan that it hopes will capture consumer interest. And while the announcement sent Xiaomi's stock up more than 9% today, the company will be entering the fray as leading brands like Tesla and China's BYD (inaudible) as economic pressures weigh on demand. Well, speaking of BYD, the Chinese car maker last year passed Tesla as the top global seller of Evs. And the company isn't stopping there, with its executives hoping to sell 400,000 vehicles outside of China this year. But as Journal Reporter River Davis writes, some recent delivery hiccups are showing that that target could be hard to hit. And they're coming at a time when questions are already swirling about the health of the broader EV market. River, BYD, this is a serious automaker here, having delivered more than 1.8 million cars last year around the world. It's also counted on Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway as an investor dating back all the way to 2008. And yet as you report lately, it's been running into what sound like some sort of elementary hiccups. BYD came onto everyone's radar for the first time last year, largely because it overtook Tesla as the largest EV maker in the world in the fourth quarter of last year. But what you have to understand about the company is that the vast majority of that growth and its current demand is within China itself, the world's biggest car market. But what we're seeing now is that it's trying to sustain that growth. The Chinese car market has been stagnant for a number of years now. BYD is now looking overseas to try and capture more growth there, and it is having some initial stumbles when it comes to that push. We're seeing that the company has overestimated demand for its cars. It's pushed quite heavily into Europe recently, and executives at the company there have flagged that demand just isn't to the level that they had expected. And on the other front, it's also facing a slow buildup of quality issues. Yeah. And you cite in your reporting a range of those quality issues, from a bus delivered to London that caught fire when it was left unattended. Other vehicles showed up in Europe with mold inside them. Could these incidents be symptoms perhaps of broader issues? First, we should definitely note that none of these quality issues have developed into a major scandal for the company thus far that would require massive amounts of recalls, that type of level of problem. They're treating, on the ground, a number of issues including mold, recoding cars, fixing scratches and blemishes. This could actually build into a really big problem for the company because this method of ad hoc fixes that sometimes works when you have a small business, but if you're attempting to scale at the pace and level that top management is pushing the company to do, then the system might fall apart. Some people are saying, "We need to take a more measured approach to exporting cars. We need to understand the consumer's needs in overseas markets and standards there before we push ahead this quickly to expand." All right. So going back to the drawing board there maybe a little bit, making sure the company's plans align with the market. Though we should point out, the market is in many ways out of BYD's control. EV makers are facing some big headwinds now. Yeah. Absolutely. The past year there's been a bit of a change in the trajectory of EVs globally. So sales are still growing, but the pace of that growth has slowed in a lot of major markets including the US, China, more recently, Germany. BYD has also been hit recently. I think its market cap is down by about a fifth from summer last year. The other big issue is regulatory challenges. In Europe, imported cars have a 10% tariff on them and local authorities are looking into whether the subsidies that BYD has received through the years from the Chinese state might warrant more tariffs on the vehicles. The US also has more than a 27% tariff placed on Chinese EVs. Yeah. Some pretty big market hurdles there, River. And if that outlook doesn't improve, is it clear what the company or Beijing for that matter might do to try to step in? Yes. We've already seen this tit-for-tat. If you put heavy tariffs on Chinese cars, then we will tariff other goods. That's been going on a bit between Europe and China recently. But at the same time, BYD is trying to figure out strategies to work around these regulatory challenges. It's setting up local production facilities in Uzbekistan and Hungary that would export to Europe. And recently we've reported that they are planning to build a plant in Mexico actually. The company has come out and said, "We're not targeting sales to the US at the moment." But if they're exporting from Mexico, they don't face the same level of tariffs likely as they would face from exporting from China. And of course it can just ship cars south where it's already targeting a big boost in sales in Latin America anyway. So it's figuring out its own strategies and it definitely has the weight of Beijing behind it. Because as the Chinese economy stumbles, Beijing is looking at solar panels, electric cars, batteries, as these new pillars of technology growth that it really seeks to capitalize on. And at least in the sector of electric vehicles, BYD has very much become the poster child of that push. Well, we'll be watching very closely. That was Wall Street Journal Reporter River Davis joining me from Tokyo. River, thank you so much as always. Yeah, thank you so much. And finally, companies around the world are taking on the challenges of expensive EV batteries, slow charging and range anxiety by looking to the road for answers. Regan Zane directs the ASPIRE Research Center at Utah State University where researchers are studying electric roads capable of wirelessly charging vehicles via coils beneath the asphalt. And he told our Future of Everything podcast that the technology which is already being piloted could unlock dramatic changes in how EVs are made and crucially what they cost. The vehicle would weigh less, meaning it requires less energy to move it per mile. You would have a relatively small battery, maybe 100 miles at most for most people. That means that the cost of the vehicle is relatively low. We could have $10,000, $15,000 electric vehicles. For fleets, for trucks, it's the same story, but now the numbers are much bigger. And given that installing enough electric roads to make that a reality could take a while, Magnus Vold, the Chief Commercial Officer of ENRX, which develops wireless charging systems for EVs, said that more controlled environments like factories could emerge as shorter term proving grounds for the technology. If you think about the warehouse, for instance, where you have a forklift that is going and it wants to go 24/7 and it's automated, why should it stop for charging? If you make the floor electric instead, the forklift would be able to charge while it's driving and you would never have to stop for charging. Those kinds of application in industry are probably going to take off commercially long before the EVs. And to learn much more about the potential wireless future for EVs, check out the latest episode of WSJ's Future of Everything podcast. And that is What's News for Tuesday morning. Today's show was produced by Kate Bullivant and Hattie Moir. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kilhof. And I'm Luke Vargas for The Wall Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. And until then, thanks for listening. Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle grilled Special Counsel Robert Hur over his report on President Biden's mishandling of classified documents, and why this is one of the most chaotic college admissions seasons in years. Counselors have said that they've never seen anything like this year, and this is following the chaos of the pandemic. Plus, slightly stronger than expected inflation in February raises the possibility of fewer rate cuts this year. It's Tuesday, March 12th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for The Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. US inflation ticked up slightly last month, but is unlikely to change expectations that the Federal Reserve will begin cutting interest rates as we've been reporting later this year. The Labor Department said consumer prices rose 3.2% in February, marking a second straight month where inflation readings were firmer than expected. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal reporter, Justin Lahart. Welcome, Justin. Hi. Okay, so this was only a 10th of a percentage point higher than economists had expected. We know the Fed's trying to control inflation and keep the labor market strong. Is this a sign that the balance the central bank's trying to strike isn't quite on target? The Fed is looking for progress on inflation and this report represents a little bit of a step back. Not seeing the really cool readings that we were seeing through the fall, it comes on the back of a January inflation report that was also hotter than expected, so still the expectation is that the Federal Reserve will be cutting rates this year. Right now, people think it's going to happen at the June meeting, and that didn't change with this report, but sort of at the margin maybe we're not going to have to cut rates or maybe we won't be cutting rates quite as much this year as we thought. So the last time they penciled in rate cuts, they said, "Oh, we're probably going to do three quarter point cuts in 2024. Some Fed officials might be a little uncomfortable with that, we'll get some new projections out next week after the Fed meeting, and maybe some of them will say, well, maybe only two cuts." That's Wall Street Journal reporter, Justin Lahart. Robert Hur, the Special Counsel who investigated President Biden's handling of classified documents testified before a House panel today where he faced intense questioning from lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. Hur's report found Biden was careless in keeping classified documents while out of office, but it did not result in criminal charges against the president. In his testimony today, Hur insisted the report was not an exoneration of Biden. The word exoneration does not appear anywhere in my report, and that is not my conclusion. Joining me now with more is Wall Street Journal Justice Department reporter, Sadie Gurman. Sadie, what were the major lines inquiry at today's hearing and to what extent did they fall along party lines? So, the questioning fell pretty predictably on party lines. Democrats said they viewed the special counsel's comments about Biden's shoddy memory during interviews as gratuitous, and they sought to draw striking contrast between Biden's handling of classified documents and that of former President Donald Trump, who has of course been charged by a different special counsel with felonies related to his own handling of classified material at his Mar-a-Lago resort. So Democrats predictably sought to show that Biden was cooperative with investigators, unlike Trump who refused to relinquish all of the documents in his possession and obstructed officials' efforts to give them back, but Republicans said, "If you didn't charge Biden for a very similar offense, why did you charge Trump?" So the focus was both on the prosecutor's credibility, as well as contrast and comparisons between Biden's handling of classified documents and Trump's. Sadie, we did see a couple of those details come out ahead of this hearing with the transcripts of the interviews Hur did with Biden back in October. Were there any other details that stood out to you from those transcripts? Well, it was a very interesting transcript. It painted a more nuanced picture of the President than the one that we saw coming out of Hur's report. In that interview, which was for five hours over two days, Biden tackled topics big and small, he talked about Obama era policy disputes, he went so far as to talk about his fondness for electric vehicles that he's been able to drive. At times he did stumble over minutia over details and express frustration over some of the questions that Hur and his team were asking, including about very detailed descriptions of filing cabinets and boxes and how certain documents got certain places, but for the most part, Biden seemed very animated and eager to respond to prosecutors' questions. Wall Street Journal Justice Department reporter, Sadie Gurman. Coming up, college applicants have a lot to contend with as they face the most confusing and chaotic college admissions season in years. That's after the break. Both President Biden and former President Donald Trump are likely to win enough delegates in the latest round of primary voting today to become the presumptive nominees of their respective parties. The results will be most closely watched in Georgia for the candidates' strengths and weaknesses with key demographics, including suburban, Black and Hispanic voters. In 2020, the state recorded the narrowest margin for victory when the two last competed for the presidency. Applying to college can be a pretty stressful time, at least if my memories of the process from almost 20 years ago are any indication, but this year might be the most chaotic, frustrating, and uncertain college admissions cycle in recent history. That's because prospective students are grappling with everything from the Supreme Court decision striking down affirmative action and admissions to changes to the new federal financial aid application, to confusion over standardized testing requirements. Here now to break this down is Wall Street Journal personal finance reporter, Oyin Adedoyin. Welcome Oyin. Thank you for having me. Let's start with the Supreme Court decision. We've reported about how that left schools confused in some cases about how to change their own admissions policies, but what has it meant for students applying to college? So this is the first admissions cycle that the SCOTUS decision on affirmative action is actually playing out in real-time, and this has mainly seemed to affect how students feel about mentioning their race when it comes to things like college essays. I spoke to a young student in Virginia, and she's a ballerina and she mentioned that she and her friends were hesitant to mention whether they were Black or not in their essays. So, really not knowing if it's beneficial to even self-identify on these forms? Exactly. The ruling from the Supreme Court doesn't mean that colleges can't consider race at all. It means that colleges have to consider it in conjunction with other things, so they can't just admit a student based on their race. Another big change that students are dealing with this year are alterations to the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or FAFSA. I remember this form being confusing back when I was applying in 2002, but it sounds like the recent changes made to sort of streamline this haven't made the process that much simpler. So this all comes from the FAFSA Simplification Act of 2020, which like you mentioned, was geared towards simplifying the super complicated financial aid form that most students have to fill out in order to figure out how much they're going to have to pay for college and how much they can qualify for loans and grants. So, this new form is shorter. It's online-based, it directly connects to IRS tax filings, but with that complete overhaul comes tons of technological glitches and tons of delays. So this new form came out nearly three months later than the usual FAFSA comes out, and since then the Education Department has pushed things back again as it corrects some technological glitches that aren't letting families into the form or are kicking families out of the form halfway through, or are not letting parents sign the form, which is a necessary feature in order to fully submit. So schools aren't going to be able to get the data from the Financial Aid Department on FAFSA until about mid-March or later, and that means that colleges can't give out financial aid packages until after they've gotten that application data. So, they've pushed back their deadlines for decisions to May 15th or even June 1st in many cases to give some parents and students more time to commit. How has this impacted the number of FAFSA applications? So far, there are less students submitting the FAFSA because of all these delays and glitches. 29% of high school seniors submitted the form as of March 1st compared with 45% at this time last year. So, we're really seeing this directly affect the number of students that are submitting forms. Wow, that's a big deal. As if this isn't enough to deal with altogether what we've been speaking of, there's another factor here too. At least the SAT was required for most schools I applied to, but during the pandemic a lot of schools relaxed or eliminated standardized testing requirements. Where's that left applicants this year? Uncertainty over test optional admissions policies has only added to the stresses that we've mentioned earlier. So most four-year colleges, like you said, stopped requiring these tests during the pandemic, but since then, a couple colleges have started to re-require SAT or ACT testing in college applications. Other colleges have really confusing terminology, like Louisiana State University is test optional, but students can only qualify for certain state scholarships if they submit SAT and ACT scores. Another university in Connecticut is test optional, test recommended or test required, depending on an applicant's major. So it's really complicated the system when it comes to testing, and students are also grappling with that. Should I take the SAT anyway to strengthen my application or is it okay if I don't do it? I've been speaking with Wall Street Journal personal finance reporter, Oyin Adedoyin. Boeing's problems are rippling across major US airlines. The company has slowed down production of its best-selling 737 MAX jets as it faces increased scrutiny from the Federal Aviation Administration and the Justice Department. Southwest Airlines, which flies only Boeing planes, said today it would cut flight capacity citing lower-than-expected deliveries of jets this year. Meanwhile, United Airlines is pausing pilot hiring for two months and hunting for new planes from Boeing rival Airbus to fill the gap, and Alaska Air said its plans for the year are also in flux because of uncertainty over Boeing deliveries. Green trader, Archer Daniels Midland or ADM has disclosed that it's under investigation by the Justice Department adding to scrutiny over its accounting practices. The company, one of the biggest players in the food supply chain, says current and former employees have received subpoenas. In January, ADM had placed its CFO on administrative leave after launching an internal review. Today, the company said its review found some products sold internally between business divisions were priced at a discount compared to their market rate. ADM said it developed a remediation plan to address the issue. The company's also corrected some past financial results while reporting lower quarterly sales and a more than 40% drop in earnings compared to a year ago. And finally, vending machines have become an unlikely trending investment in the last few years and have captured the imagination of Americans dreaming of easier money. There are three million of these machines in the US, and according to the National Automatic Merchandising Association, they bring in about $525 a month on average. Personal finance reporter, Joe Pinsker, explains how candy and soda machines became an unlikely investment idea. Vending machines have a relatively low startup cost, so unlike the idea of buying a whole business like a laundromat or something, you can get going with vending machines for just a couple thousand dollars. The other thing is just that this is a pretty intuitive business model to people. Just the basic premise of you put this box somewhere, you stick some food or drinks in it, and you have people sell it, it just sort of seems to make sense. There are lots of success stories, but there are also plenty of people who really struggle with it, and a lot of it has to do with the location that you end up placing your machine in. If it doesn't have the right foot traffic, you could be in trouble. You have to invest upfront a bit in the machines that you buy. You have to then pay to stock up on product at stores like Costco or Sam's Club, and you have to pay the occasional maintenance repair fee when the machine breaks down. That's some food for thought for me next time I drop some quarters into the work vending machine for a snack. To hear more about investing in vending machines, check out Joe's full interview on today's Your Money Briefing Podcast. That's What's News for this Tuesday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Anthony Bansie and Pierre Bienaimé, with supervising producer Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for The Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning.