The rematch is set as Biden and Trump clinch their party nominations. Plus house lawmakers prepare to vote on legislation that could ban TikTok in the US. This new bill has a lot of political momentum, and the legislators wrote it in a way that it might better withstand a legal challenge that stopped the other attempts to ban TikTok in the past. And we'll get the latest from Brussels as the EU takes on AI. It's Wednesday, March 13th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. And here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. This year's presidential election is on track to become the first rematch since 1956. That's after President Joe Biden and former president Donald Trump won enough delegates to secure their respective party's presidential nominations after they both won primaries in several states last night, including Georgia, Washington, and Mississippi. Trump will now establish a joint fundraising committee with the Republican National Committee, allowing the campaign to tap bigger contributions as the GOP looks to erase a fundraising deficit with Democrats. We are exclusively reporting that House Republicans are pushing their GOP colleagues to openly talk about their position on abortion, rather than sidestep the issue like many did in previous campaigns. A memo prepared by House Republicans campaign arm and viewed by the Wall Street Journal says the GOP has a brand problem, not a policy problem, telling candidates they must confidently articulate their stance. And that not doing so is the "worst possible solution." Congressional correspondent Natalie Andrews says, "Abortion rights have weighed on the party's success in recent years and will be a key theme in the upcoming election." Republicans say, "Tell voters where you stand. If it's a 15-week abortion ban, if it's a 24-week abortion ban, and that may help you connect to voters where some polls show that maybe they support more abortion rights than say an all-out ban on abortion." It is interesting, because in 2022, a lot of Republicans just didn't want to talk about the issue at all. They shied away. And a lot of them got in trouble because they talked about it in their primary and tried to seem conservative, and then there were all these sound bites from Republican debates floating out there. And then they didn't want to talk about it in the general election when they were up against a Democrat. The guidance will be presented to GOP colleagues tonight as the party kicks off its annual policy retreat in West Virginia. Meanwhile, House Democrats hoping to unstick USAID for Ukraine and Israel, have begun gathering signatures for a so-called discharge petition to force a vote on a more than $95 billion package passed by the Senate, but opposed by house speaker Mike Johnson. The effort requires support from just a simple majority of house members, but Democratic aides say they may need up to two dozen Republicans to back the move given expected Democratic defections over Israel policy. Speaking yesterday, Senate Minority Leader Republican, Mitch McConnell, joined Democrats in calling for swift action on the aid package.Mitch McConnell: Anything that's changed that's sent back here, as you all know, even the simplest thing can take a week in the Senate. We don't have time for all of this. We've got a bill that got 70 votes in the Senate, give members of the House of Representatives an opportunity to vote on it. That's the solution. In a stopgap move yesterday, the Biden administration said it's sending $300 million more in ammunition and other weapons to Ukraine as Congress debates its next steps. It is shaping up to be a critical day for TikTok as the US House of Representatives prepares to vote on legislation that could ban the popular app if it's Beijing-based owner doesn't sell it in the coming months. The bill is expected to pass the House, and possible investors are already circling TikTok. But as journal reporter, Stu Woo, is here to remind us, past efforts to rein in TikTok have hit a variety of hurdles, and this latest effort is far from over. Stu, could you just recap for us what exactly this bill being voted on today would do, and whether this represents maybe a new approach in how lawmakers are considering what to do with TikTok? Sure. The US House is voting on a bill that would force TikTok's parent company, ByteDance, to either sell TikTok within six months, or if it doesn't, then it would effectively ban TikTok in the US. It would make it hard for app stores to offer TikTok. It would make it hard for internet providers to allow TikTok to be accessed in the US. This doesn't exactly represent a new approach in how Congress is approaching this. The main difference is that this new bill has a lot of political momentum, and the legislators wrote it in a way that it might better withstand a legal challenge that stopped the other attempts to ban TikTok in the past. How so? Congress last year introduced a few bills to ban TikTok, but they didn't really gain any momentum. Some of them died because there was political infighting, partisan politics, if you will, and others had some legal concerns that it might violate the First Amendment or other laws. So the legislators, when drafting the language for this bill, they brought in some constitutional experts to make sure, okay, if TikTok does sue to stop this attempt, they want to make sure that it can survive any lawsuit in the courts. How is ByteDance responding to this impending vote? Sure. ByteDance is doing what it has done in previous attempts. Number one, it's sending its lobbyists and its top executive, its CEO, to Congress to talk to lawmakers about why this is a bad idea. It's also mobilizing its TikTok celebrities to go out in public to say, "Hey, you shouldn't do this. We depend on this for our livelihood, and this is about free speech." And also it did one new thing, which is it sent this notification to the phones of people who use TikTok. So when you open the app, it said, "Congress wants to ban us. But if you press a couple buttons right now, you can call your Congress member and complain about this and say, 'Hey, don't do this. Don't ban TikTok.'" We've reported that a sale of TikTok's US operations could fetch hundreds of billions of dollars, and yet it doesn't sound like that's something the company is engaging with. Sure, that's right. So yeah, TikTok could be worth tens or hundreds of billions of dollars. It has more than 170 million users in the US. But the issue here is that we don't think that ByteDance's owners, their Chinese co-founders, want to sell TikTok. And even if they wanted to, the Chinese government could stop that. The Chinese governments has export controls over TikTok's algorithm, the thing that shows you what video comes up next when you access TikTok. And that's up to the Chinese government to decide, okay, ByteDance, you aren't or are allowed to sell TikTok. So even if ByteDance were to agree to a sale, that too could be easier said than done. Yeah, there's a lot of complicated things here. So number one, does somebody want to buy TikTok? Now, my colleagues have reported that there are some potential buyers circling the wagons right now. TikTok could be really expensive. They have more than 170 million users. There's only a few companies out there that have the kind of money to buy them. The second problem with that is that there could be some anti-dress issues, especially in this Biden administration environments right now where they have been eager to stop big mergers. So a company that could afford to buy TikTok might face those concerns. All right, so should this bill clear the House, Stu, it's then onto the Senate. What would we be watching for there? So today the bill is widely expected to pass the US House. Both legislative aides and TikTok employees themselves believe that will happen easily. But both sides also think that when it goes to the Senate, it's going to face a much trickier path. No one knows what's going to happen there. And some senators, like Rand Paul of Kentucky, have already come out and said, "We shouldn't ban TikTok." So a couple of senators could try to delay the bill. And another tricky thing is that the Senate might make some changes to the bill, then it would have to go back to the House. So there's definitely a far less clear path in the Senate compared with the US House today. And finally, Stu, even if this bill does clear Congress, the House and the Senate, and President Biden signs it as he said he would do. Another X factor here could be the courts, right, Stu? For instance, we saw a judge block a Montana bill that banned TikTok from going into effect, that too could be an outcome of all of this. Yeah, absolutely. So TikTok has indicated that they believe that this bill does amount to a ban, and that it would violate the First Amendment rights of its users. Now, that said, this bill was written by legislators with that in mind. So they brought in constitutional experts to write the language in a way that they think this would survive a court challenge on those grounds. So we'll see. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal reporter, Stu Woo. Stu, thanks so much. Thanks, Luke. Coming up, historic new AI regulations are set to be approved today in Europe. We'll get the latest from Brussels, and look at the insights that a nearly $190 million diet study aims to unlock after the break. European Union lawmakers today are set to formally sign off on sweeping new rules on artificial intelligence. The Journal's Kim Mackrael is in Brussels. Kim, I understand that if all goes is planned today, the EU AI Act could go into effect later this year. Tell us what that bill would do. Yeah, so it's a pretty sweeping piece of legislation, and I think it's broadly being seen as a world first. Because although some other jurisdictions have pieces of AI legislation, this is thought to be, at least in the Western world, the first broad comprehensive attempt to legislate on artificial intelligence. And it covers quite a bit. I think maybe just thinking about it in three broad categories, there's prohibitions on certain behaviors. And so an example of that is using emotion recognition in the workplace or in a school environment. There are some new transparency rules for general purpose AI. And there are requirements for companies that make AI systems that are deemed to be high risk, to test and to do reporting on those systems. And Kim, there are also provisions in here for so-called deepfakes and around police use of AI, right? That's right. So for deepfakes, the idea is under the legislation, a deepfake, a manipulated photo of an existing place or people, that is supposed to be labeled as having been artificially manipulated. For policing, one of the ways this will take effect is a ban that exists on real-time biometric surveillance, but there are some narrow exemptions for how law enforcement can use some of these tools under fairly specific circumstances. And Kim, how is industry responding to this, the big tech companies that run many of these AI services? So there was quite a bit of lobbying. Some of the legislators who worked on this have said it was their biggest experience of lobbying, having worked on legislation over years. So there was quite a lot of interest, and a lot of lobbying from lobby groups that represent AI companies and from the AI companies themselves. There had been some threats last year about the possibility of AI companies simply not providing their products to the European market. As far as we're aware, there are no threats on the table along those lines now. And I think what you've seen is a lot of AI companies broadly accept that there will be some form of regulation. They've tried to influence what that will look like. I think there's some acceptance that the EU version of this regulation is coming through. There's not a lot that they can change about that now. They do have some time to adapt to it. One particular company's comment that might be helpful in thinking about how companies are responding to this is from Mistral AI, which is a French AI company, heavily involved in lobbying in relation to the AI Act. And their CEO had some concerns about what it would require companies to do. And he said recently after changes were made to the text, it would be a manageable burden for the company. He still thinks it goes farther than he would like it to, but he considers it to be manageable. That was the Journal's Kim Mackrael in Brussels. Kim, thanks so much. Thank you. Thanks so much. And finally, ultra-processed foods may not only affect our bodies, but our brains as well. That's according to new research that suggests that ultra-processed foods such as chips, snack bars, and breakfast cereals may be linked to changes in the way that we learn, remember, and feel. And it builds on recent studies that had already found that high-fat and sugar diets synonymous with many processed foods can increase the risk of depression and poorer memory performance. This comes as The National Institutes of Health has kicked off its most ambitious nutrition research project to date. And WSJ consumer health reporter, Andrea Petersen, told us that the $189 million study aims to look at how different people respond to different diets. Sometimes the advice is conflicting. Remember the low-fat movement, which was really found to actually not be healthy. So people can tend to be confused about what is actually the best thing for them, so that's part of the problem. Also, the chronic diseases related to our diets are on the rise. Scientists believe that actually people might be much more willing to follow a healthy diet if they're actually seeing that, "Oh, hey, my blood sugar has gone down. My blood pressure has gone down because I'm following this diet." The NIH hopes the study will eventually enable Americans to receive personalized diet advice from their doctors. And that is What's News for Wednesday morning. Today's show was produced by Kate Bullivant and Hattie Moir. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kilhof. And I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. And until then, thanks for listening. Annmarie Fertoli : Bitcoin ETFs are struggling to get buy-in from financial advisors. If something were to happen with bitcoin, if it were to crash, that could really cause some sort of liability for the financial advisors.Annmarie Fertoli : And lobbyists turned to the Senate after the U.S house approves a bill to ban TikTok or force a sale of the app. Plus the European Central Bank makes a technical but consequential change affecting European banks. It's Wednesday, March 13th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that move the world today. The European Central Bank has unveiled a rare makeover to the inner workings of monetary policy and a change that's important for the economy and investors. Reporter Tom Fairless says, "The goal is to gradually reduce the ECB's footprint in the financial system by changing how the banks interact with it and each other." So it's a change that won't be seen by most businesses and households. It affects how the ECB gets its interest rates that it sets into the economy, how it engages with the banks and how the banks engage with each other for the interest rates to level off at the place where the ECB wants them. Now the interest rates have risen because there's this inflationary environment suddenly and central banks are reducing their bond holdings. They're shrinking the amount of money in the system. And in Europe, a lot of this transmission takes place through banks, and the banks really haven't lent to each other in a significant way since the global financial crisis. The trust broke down back then, and since then they've used the ECB as the intermediary. And this step by the ECB is an attempt to nudge banks back to a place where they can start lending to each other again.Annmarie Fertoli : The makeover has no bearing on the ECB's interest rate decisions. This is the first year some big companies like Duke Energy, and Whirlpool are taking a hit from a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax or CAMT. The tax targets companies with high profits and low taxes. It's supposed to act like a sort of backstop for companies averaging at least a billion dollars in financial statement profits over three years. But there's still some confusion over the new tax because the Treasury Department still hasn't detailed the rules for calculating it. Here now with more is our US tax policy reporter, Richard Rubin. Welcome back, Richard. Hey, thanks for having me.Annmarie Fertoli : Okay, so this tax, CAMT, was part of the Inflation Reduction Act. Is it working as intended? That's one thing we're still trying to figure out and we don't have a full picture. It took effect for calendar year companies starting with calendar year 2023, but the first tax returns actually won't be filed until later this year. We're in a very early stage of trying to figure out whether this thing is working. One thing we can say is it is requiring some companies to pay taxes that they otherwise would not have paid, and that's what we're seeing show up in the financial statements that companies have filed in the past couple of months.Annmarie Fertoli : And before we get to those financial statements, why hasn't the Treasury Department released the rules? This sounds pretty confusing. That's because the tax itself is confusing and complicated. So the Treasury Department is working on those rules. They're expected soon-ish. Those will be the proposed rules and then the companies will have, and others will have time to comment on them and then they'll be final rules. One would imagine that those should be done by the time the actual returns on extension are due later this year. But yeah, it has proven to be one of the more difficult regulatory projects that the Treasury Department has tried to do.Annmarie Fertoli : So how are big companies making due in the meantime? What are we finding out from their securities filings? So we're seeing a few things. We're seeing some companies say "We're subject to CAMT," and I don't know what that means. I don't know whether that means they're above the billion dollar threshold and they're paying it or they're just above the billion dollar threshold and calculating their taxes both ways, but not paying it. Because the way this works is you calculate the regular corporate tax and you calculate the CAMT and then you pay whichever is higher. So we're seeing some of that. And then we're seeing some companies say KKR and Blackstone for example, "We expect to pay CAMT," or, "e are paying CAMT," but then they don't provide any detail on how much. And then we're seeing other companies, Whirlpool, Duke, Energy, a couple of financial companies actually disclose numbers and say, "Okay, well this is how much of a liability we had for CAMT in 2023."Annmarie Fertoli : So what else is in store for the companies affected by CAMT? A couple things are worth emphasizing. One is what causes companies to go into CAMT is things like the treatment of stock-based compensation. And so that's different for gap and for tax, and that can cause companies to pay it. Another important thing to know is there are some tax breaks that are allowed under CAMT. There are some things that you still can do as a company to be really profitable and pay relatively little below 15%. And then the last thing I would add is that if you pay CAMT in 2023, say you pay $30 million in CAMT and then in 2024 you're back in the regular tax system and your regular tax is higher than your CAMT, you can use that 30 million to cover that cost. So in some ways it accelerates when companies are paying and you may see companies be in CAMT some years and out of CAMT other years. It is a devilishly complex tax added to a devilishly complex tax system.Annmarie Fertoli : That's Wall Street Journal US Tax Policy Reporter, Richard Rubin. Coming up the price of bitcoin topped $73,000 today. And individual investors have poured billions of dollars into bitcoin ETFs since they launched in January. But why aren't the ETFs drawing in financial advisors? More after the break. Even dollar stores are starting to feel a squeeze from higher prices. Dollar Tree said it will close nearly 1,000 Family Dollar locations over the next few years. The company cited inflation, store theft and merger indigestion since it won the hard-fought battle to acquire Family Dollar, its one-time rival Back in 2015. Company executives said, "Persistent Inflation and reduced government benefits are putting more pressure on customers, especially those at lower income levels." McDonald's also said it's cash-strapped consumers are pulling back. At an investor conference the company's finance chief said Lower-income. Consumers are increasingly spending their savings and opting for grocery stores instead of restaurants. McDonald's says it's rolling out promotions and bundle deals in response. And while we're on the topic of higher prices, let's face it, we're paying more at the grocery store and restaurants these days. We'd like to hear from you. What questions do you have about food price Inflation and what it means for your family budget? Send us a note or even better record a voice memo on your phone and send it to wnpod@WSJ.com. That's W-N-P-O-D@WSJ.com. You can also leave us a voicemail at 212-416-4328. Just be sure to include your name and location. We might use it on the show. There was a lot of attention around the launch of bitcoin exchange-traded funds in January and bitcoin has been on a rally topping $73,000 today. The bitcoin ETFs allow everyday investors to buy the digital assets directly through their brokerage accounts instead of indirectly like going through a crypto exchange or to funds that track bitcoin's price through futures contracts. Since the launch, individual investors have poured billions of dollars into these ETFs, but the ETFs target market, financial advisors who oversee trillions of dollars in client assets, are still on the sidelines. So why aren't they buying in here now? With MORE is Wall Street Journal Markets reporter Vicky Huang. Welcome back Vicki. Thank you for having me.Annmarie Fertoli : Okay, so why are financial advisors staying out right now? So a lot of these financial advisors, they work in the wealth management divisions of big banks like Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, JP, Morgan, Wells, Fargo, et cetera. And in order to sell these bought bitcoin ETFs and pitch them to their customers, that would require approval from these wealth management platforms. And so far that has not come down yet.Annmarie Fertoli : So why the reluctance? We all know that bitcoin is a very volatile asset and adding a spot bitcoin ETF to a customer's portfolio could really shift the risk profile of a portfolio. So if something were to happen with a bitcoin, that could really cause some sort of liability for the financial advisors. Some institutions such as smaller registered investment advisory firms, hedge funds and other institutions have bought the spot bitcoin ETFs. And if clients were to ask their financial advisors to buy the spot bitcoin ETFs for them, they can still do that.Annmarie Fertoli : I would think the current rally would be an incentive for more financial advisors to get involved, but it doesn't seem to be having that effect. I've talked to some financial advisors and it's true, a lot of them are getting a lot of client inquiries about all kinds of questions about accessing Bitcoin. And it seems like right now many wealth management platforms are taking a wait and see approach, or they're doing due diligence on these spot bitcoin ETFs to see if they can be added to the wealth management platform. But the price surge has definitely generated a lot of interest in retail customers.Annmarie Fertoli : If financial advisors continue to stay on the sidelines, what could that mean for the future of Crypto ETFs, which were really hailed as a game changer when they launched? Financial advisors who collectively oversee by some estimates $30 trillion in client assets in the United States. If they cannot access these spot bitcoin ETFs, that would probably mean some sort of stagnation in asset growth for these ETFs at some point, just because right now it's still unclear according to some skeptics, whether these flows into the new bitcoin ETFs are new money coming into the space or just people shifting their assets from more expensive products tied to bitcoin to these cheaper and easy to use ETFs?Annmarie Fertoli : That's Wall Street Journal markets reporter Vicky Huang. As expected, house lawmakers have overwhelmingly approved a bill that would ban TikTok from operating in the US or force a sale of the company. The measure calls for TikTok's parent, the Chinese company ByteDance to divest itself from the platform or face a ban from app stores and web hosting services in the US. Lawmakers have said TikTok's ownership potentially gives Beijing a way to collect data on Americans and influence public opinion. The short video app has also faced scrutiny over the way its algorithm selects content to show users. A TikTok spokeswoman says, "The ban is based on zero evidence." Critics of the bill say it unfairly singles out TikTok it now heads to the Senate where its fate is more uncertain. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer has declined to say whether he would bring it up for a vote. President Biden has said he would sign the bill if it reached his desk. A Georgia judge has dismissed six counts in the election interference indictment, former President, Donald Trump, and five co-defendants. The counts were related to allegations Trump and others, including former lawyer Rudy Giuliani illegally tried to influence the state's elected officials to violate their oaths of office in attempts to unlawfully influence the outcome of the 2020 presidential election. In total, 35 counts remain in the indictment. A representative for Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis didn't immediately respond to request for comment. Willis is facing a motion to be disqualified from the case on misconduct allegations. And that's what's news for this Wednesday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Anthony Bansie and Pierre Bienaim, with supervising producer Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Thanks for listening.