With his opponents sidelined, Vladimir Putin wins another six years in office. Plus federal prosecutors investigate Meta for potentially profiting from drug sales, and China tries to lure back foreigners, but is its charm offensive enough? There's a lot more at stake here beyond just being liked. Foreign investment inflows last year fell 8%, and that's the first decline in 10 years. So Beijing really needs to address this slide. It's Monday, March 18th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal, and here is the AM edition of What's News? The top headlines and business stories moving your world, today. We begin in Russia, where, as predicted, Vladimir Putin has claimed victory in the country's general election, securing another six-year term in office with 88% of the vote. The inevitable result came after a carefully managed re-election campaign that saw opposition candidates sidelined. Putin's most effective opponent, Alexei Navalny, was also out of the picture, having been found dead in an Arctic prison camp last month in circumstances that haven't been fully explained. Political analysts say that Putin's fifth term in office is likely to be taken up by the war in Ukraine and ensuring the continued support from the Russian people. Meanwhile, Ukraine is beginning to report success in exporting grain, following a halt in maritime shipments after Russia's 2022 invasion. And though the UN and Turkey subsequently brokered a Black Sea grain deal, Ukraine said that Russia was using inspections to slow down shipments. Our James Marson in Kiev says that makes a recent increase in exports a bright spot as the country contends with stalled US aid and recent setbacks on the battlefield. Something changed last summer. Ukraine actually managed to blast a path of its own using unconventional sea power, so they used naval drones to attack Russia's Black Sea fleet. The Ukrainians sunk several warships and forced the Russian fleet out large parts of the Black Sea. That created what the Ukrainians are calling a new corridor that's allowed ships to start taking out grain again. And that's brought export levels almost back to where they were before the war. That's a huge boost for Ukraine's economy. The economy ministry estimates it will add about $3.3 billion to exports this year and 1.2 percentage points to economic growth. And while the situation in the Black Sea could change, James said that officials are hopeful that they've put the grain industry on a sustainable path. A key part of getting the grain corridor working has been insurance. The Ukrainian government work with international insurers to help grain ships sailing to and from Ukraine to find affordable coverage. At first, the ships that were coming were smaller ships, but as confidence has grown, the ships have grown in size. This has been a big military success for Ukraine that has had important economic consequences. Andrei Stavnitser, whose company operates one of Odessa's ports, called it a showcase of power that's communicated with Russia in a language that it understands. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is hitting back at Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, after the highest-ranking Jewish lawmaker in the US called for new elections and said Israel, quote, "Cannot hope to succeed as a pariah opposed by the rest of the world." In an interview on Fox & Friends, Netanyahu called Schumer's remarks wholly inappropriate, and condemned what he depicted as an effort to replace him during a time of war. He also defended plans for a possible invasion of the southern Gaza city of Rafah, citing the risk that Hamas fighters left there could regroup.Speaker 4: That's not going to happen. So we need total victory over Hamas. We're within reach, we should do it. We're going to do it while we enable the civilian population in Rafah to leave, as we've done up to now, but we have to finish the job. In separate remarks on Fox News, White House National Security Council spokesman, John Kirby, reiterated US concerns about a potential Rafah invasion, saying Israeli plans to provide a civilian escape route out of the city so far haven't been credible. Cuba witnessed its largest anti-regime demonstrations since 2021 yesterday as hundreds of protesters took to the streets in two cities, driven by anger over blackouts and a lack of food. Cuba's state-run telecom company responded by curtailing mobile internet service on parts of the island, complicating efforts to get news of the demonstrations out to the rest of the country. The US embassy in Havana urged the government to address the legitimate needs of the Cuban people, while Cuba's president said the protests were the result of the US embargo. And in a blow to the Biden administration's counterterrorism efforts in West Africa, we are exclusively reporting that Niger has cut military ties with the US after Washington accused it of secretly exploring a deal to let Iran access its uranium reserves. A spokesman for Niger's junta, which seized power in July, denied any deal with Iran, and accused the US of trying to prevent it from choosing its own diplomatic partners. A spokesman for Iran's UN mission in New York declined to comment. Since last year's coup, Niger has tightened ties with Russia, as well as with neighboring Mali and Burkina Faso, both of which are ruled by generals aligned with Moscow. The world's second-largest economy is hungry for foreigners. Before the pandemic, China's financial capitals were teeming with international visitors and expats, and students flocked to the country's universities to study Mandarin, with many staying behind to pursue lucrative careers. But as Journal reporter, Liza Lin, reports, China's Allure has faded, with the number of registered foreign citizens dropping sharply in recent years, following COVID lockdowns and a government crackdown on businesses. And that has now led Beijing to roll out a charm offensive in a bid to shed its increasing isolation. Liza, everyone likes to be liked, of course, but maybe the same goes for countries as well. But tell us about why the stakes here are about more than just China's image? There's a lot more at stake here beyond just being liked. Firstly, China could really use the economic boost that overseas investment and tourism brings. Economic growth in China was sluggish last year, and the country is battling a real slump in consumer confidence. To just give you some perspective, foreign investment inflows last year fell 8%, and that's the first decline in 10 years, so Beijing really needs to address this slide. For example, when foreign expats and executives come to China, they bring skills and knowledge to the country that China needs to advance its business and manufacturing sectors. I think more broadly as well, the longer-term expats we've interviewed say a lack of foreign interest could possibly lead to a deepening of mistrust between China and the world, and now's really not the time for it. All right. So lots of potential consequences there. And as you say, China has stepped in here with a so-called charm offensive to try and turn the situation around. What form is that taking? Yeah. So people kind of call this period a post-COVID hangover. China had shut its borders for so long during the pandemic years that tourists just don't think about China anymore when they think about traveling somewhere. And within China itself, you had these really strict city lockdowns, that because of COVID, have paralyzed entire regions, and that's led to a huge outflow of expats and also manufacturing companies who were worried about their supply chains. China recognizes this exodus, and they've been taking steps to address it. I think the biggest one they've taken is really to waive off visa requirements for 15 countries over the past year. So for example, if you were a resident of France or Germany, you don't need a visa to go into China anymore. And to make it more appealing for longer-term expats, China's also extended tax breaks. And for foreign companies looking to expand in China, Beijing has promised to break down market barriers and just do more to smooth out any challenges hindering them there. I would imagine those assurances to businesses will take a little time to actually lead to any changes in business practices, Liza, but I am curious if some of those steps you've talked about are starting to show any effect yet? Yes. We're seeing some really early positive signs. So for example, the number of tourists are up, and not just tourists, the business travelers, too. This group was hit pretty hard during the pandemic, because if you remember, China made all incoming travelers quarantine for two weeks before entering the country, and that was hugely unpopular. The business travelers are coming also because China's hosting more international exhibitions. The other promising thing to note is that the US and China will increase direct flights between the two countries at the end of the month, so it's going from 35 flights each week to 50 direct flights each week. But beyond that, I think there are also signs that it will take a while for businesses to return. Yeah. And not to mention that no less than the US State Department is actively discouraging for an engagement with China. Beijing really facing some big headwinds here. Yeah. So the overall geopolitical situation is really not helping. The State Department has put out a travel advisory on China, basically asking its citizens to reconsider travel to China because of the risk of exit bans or wrongful detention. And in Washington DC itself, the topic of China engagement is now very, very toxic. A lot of US businesses have come under scrutiny over their China ties. So while we were researching this story, we spoke to many people living in China, or people who have left China as well, and I think there was one US business executive in Beijing who really put it best. This person says China has a long way to go before it can restore the broken trust from over the last few years. That was the Wall Street Journal's Liza Lin. Liza, thanks so much for bringing us this story. Thanks for having me, Luke. Coming up, federal prosecutors probe whether Meta's social media platforms are facilitating drug sales, and a key free speech case heads to the Supreme Court. Those stories and more after the break. Shares of both Nissan and Honda have risen sharply this morning after the Japanese automaker said they were teaming up on electric vehicles as part of an effort to compete with rivals in China and the US such as BYD and Tesla. People at the companies said Nissan and Honda have faced pressure from Japanese officials to work more closely together to achieve economies of scale. The rally in both automakers comes amid broader gains in Japanese stocks ahead of a hotly anticipated rate decision from the Bank of Japan tomorrow, where analysts and investors expect the BOJ to raise rates. The historic move comes as Japan's economy kicks into higher gear, following years of negative interest rates as the BOJ sought to combat economic stagnation and persistent deflation. Now to a journal exclusive, as we've learned that federal authorities are investigating Meta platforms for its role in drug sales. Salvador Rodriguez covers Meta for the Journal. In my own exploration of Facebook, it's not tough to find a marijuana for sale on Facebook Marketplace, for example, or magic mushrooms. We've heard of situations where folks are selling ingredients to make drugs wholesale, or selling steroids, selling counterfeit pills. It seems to be a pretty wide problem. US prosecutors have reportedly sent subpoenas as part of a criminal grand jury probe, looking into whether Facebook and Instagram are facilitating and profiting from the illegal sale of drugs. A way that Meta could potentially profit theoretically is if someone places an ad, which Meta draws revenue from, to draw attention to their personal account or maybe their page. And then if they are using those pages or accounts to conduct those kinds of sales, that would be one situation where Meta is indirectly profiting. Meta has said that the sale of illicit drugs is against its policies, and that it's working to find and remove such content from its services, while also assisting law enforcement authorities in helping combat the sale and distribution of such drugs. The prosecutor's office declined to comment. And to hear much more on this story, check out the latest episode of Tech News Briefing wherever you get your podcasts. The Supreme Court today will hear a key case on free speech. Under scrutiny is the White House's strategy for fighting what it said was misinformation about vaccines, COVID lockdowns, and other public health efforts in a time of crisis. The lawsuit led by the Republican attorneys general of Missouri and Louisiana alleges that the federal government engaged in censorship by unlawfully pressuring tech companies to suppress posts opposed to vaccines. It is the latest in a series of cases that could set important ground rules for digital free speech and content moderation. The Biden administration argues that the plaintiffs have exaggerated the government's influence, while Google, Meta, and X haven't taken sides in the litigation. And a new wave of tech is changing how some women view and even use their monthly cycles in their favor. Biohacking is the phenomenon where women monitor their menstrual cycles with a range of different wearables and apps to determine how hormones may affect their daily lives. And although women tracking their periods is nothing new, health and fitness freelance reporter, Caitlin Carlson, says the technology is booming. So the word empowering came up quite a few times during my early interviews with the women who are doing this, and they're finding that instead of dreading how their cycle makes them feel, they can actually adjust their routines to work with the ups and downs, tweaking everything from their nutrition, to their workouts, even their social schedules and how they run their businesses based on their cycles. For example, some women do lower-intensity workouts when they're in their luteal phase. That's when some women may feel less energetic due to hormonal fluctuations. Another woman told me that she tries to schedule dates when she knows she'll be feeling more social based on where she is in her cycle. Another woman does something similar for work, aiming to pitch clients during ovulation in her follicular face. And that's What's News for Monday morning. Today's show was produced by Kate Bullivant and Hattie Moyer. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kilhof, and I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. And until then, thanks for listening. Another top female executive at Goldman Sachs is leaving, adding to an exodus of women.Anna  The issue we've been looking into and porting on is what happens after women are made partners, and that's where a lack of advancement into the firm's most senior ranks becomes evident. And how an obscure server maker had a better year than Nvidia, plus former President Donald Trump says he can't secure a bond to cover a $454 million civil fraud judgment. It's Monday, March 18th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. Believe it or not, there's a tech company that had a better year than chip maker Nvidia. It's Super Micro Computer, A once-under-the-radar server maker that's become a $60 billion company. Super Micro Computer joined the S&P 500 today and is by far the index's top one-year performer. Sales of its servers equipped with Nvidia's artificial intelligence chips are projected to double its revenue this year. Reporter Asa Fitch covers semiconductor companies for the Wall Street Journal. Clearly the AI boom is not over yet and people are still investing heavily in this kind of stuff. That's no surprise. Another interesting thing it says is that there's a lot of demand out there for very custom AI kind of solutions, if you will, within the industry. But what it means is different types of AI need different types of computing power. Somebody who's developing a self-driving car technology might need a different kind of computing setup than somebody who's doing a large language model like a ChatGPT, which OpenAI does. And the thing that Super Micro does that distinguishes itself from competitors is that it uses what it calls a "building block" approach to build its servers. So because it has these kinds of building blocks, it can kind of put together things into any number of configurations for people, create an almost semi-custom kind of infrastructure and people like that these days. So that's another thing that this reveals about the AI boom is that people really like to have custom kind of infrastructure for their AI computing needs and those needs continue to grow. You can hear more on this story on today's episode of our Tech News Briefing podcast. Donald Trump's lawyers say he's been unable to secure a bond to guarantee payment of a $454 million civil fraud judgment ordered against him last month. In a filing to a New York Appeals Court, the former president said the judgment was so big that suretors wouldn't accept real estate as collateral and would require cash to guarantee the bond. Suretors guarantee the debt and would undertake paying it if Trump doesn't. Trump has asked a New York appellate court to waive the bond requirement while he appeals the judgment, arguing that paying now would cause him irreparable harm. If the court turns down his request and he's unable to obtain a bond, New York Attorney General Letitia James could begin enforcing the judgment next week. The judgment stems from a ruling that found Trump falsely valued parts of his real estate empire for financial gain. The judge imposed $355 million in penalties plus interest, meaning Trump's debt is growing daily. US lawmakers are staring down another deadline Friday to pass six remaining bills to avert a partial government shutdown. Yes, again. You may remember the last time this happened, it was earlier this month. Well, even with that deal, there were still a couple of unfinished bills on the table and now it's about time for lawmakers to take care of them too. Joining me now to explain is Wall Street Journal congressional reporter Katy Stech Ferek. Welcome back, Katy.Katy  Thanks for having me. Okay, Katy, I have this question and I'm sure our listeners may as well. How in the world are we staring down another potential government shutdown?Katy  I know. We've been on shutdown watch since September. Congress has just been kicking the can on these deadlines. I mean, they face an annual deadline by September 30th to figure out what the budget, split up the budget for federal agencies the next year. And we've had a lot of chaos and they've had to move deadlines several times and Congress has waited, quite frankly, to the last minute to give themselves what amounted to four extensions on their homework. And so we are in yet another shutdown week. We've just had a lot of deadlines and they haven't finished it. What is left on the to-do list is very small and we are down to a few limited fights. And while we do have a shutdown, that deadline and while some funding would expire for federal agencies after Friday night, if nothing is passed, I do feel like once they pull through, we have a little bit of a break on shutdown watch. So what are these bills under consideration this week? There's six remaining bills that would avoid a shutdown.Katy  Exactly. Exactly. So every year, the way Congress funds itself is it splits all of its budget up into 12 different bills and the bills have different agencies under each of them. They've already passed six of them, but we are waiting. The final bills include some of the biggest bills. The bill that would fund the Defense Department, the bill that would fund the Treasury Department and Homeland Security and Health and Human Services. And what are the major hurdles to getting that done?Katy  There were a lot of last minute fights related to this. One was really interesting. Whether or not lawmakers should give themselves a raise, they haven't had a raise since 2009 to their $174,000 a year salary. There was a dispute over whether a UN agency that provides money and humanitarian aid to Palestinian refugees. In January, the Biden Administration paused some of the funding when it was found out that there were some folks connected to that agency involved with the October 7th attacks in Israel. There was some back and forth between lawmakers over whether that pause should be permanent, how much money should flow to this organization. At the last minute, there were some other disputes over DHS funding and how much money can go to border agents and a couple of other DHS priorities. And there was some disagreement over how much money would flow to different pots within that organization. That's Wall Street Journal congressional reporter Katy Stech Ferek. Coming up, Goldman Sachs is losing Stephanie Cohen, one of its most senior women, and the latest in a string of women to depart the company more after the break. An exodus of top female talent continues at Goldman Sachs. We report exclusively today that Stephanie Cohen, one of the firm's most senior executives, is now exiting. People familiar with the matter say she's heading to a new role, Chief Strategy Officer at cloud services provider. Cloudflare. Cohen's departure is just the latest in what has been a string of departures of women partners. As the Wall Street Journal reported last week, many are getting better offers elsewhere. Reporter Anna Maria Andriotis has been reporting on what's happening at Goldman and she joins me now with more. Welcome back, Anna Maria.Anna  Great to be speaking with you. So Anna Maria, what I'm trying to suss out here is how much of this relates to general turmoil at Goldman versus what's specific to women's experiences in the workplace there? Why are so many women leaving?Anna  This is a complex question and the reasons are nuanced. There isn't just one. So first of all, there've been a lot of changes that have happened at Goldman in recent years. Reorgs of different divisions, reorgs on a firm-wide basis, and that has impacted both men and women, both of whom have been leaving the firm. But separately from that, it's been hard to come away from this reporting and hearing about people's experiences and looking at it, all of it in front of me without the impression and the understanding that there is an element here that is gender related. When women reach partner level and partner is pretty much one of the highest levels you can reach at Goldman, what emerges following that several years into being partner for a number of women, what has contributed to a number of them leaving has been effectively what looks like a ceiling. And that ceiling is basically women who strive to become a co-head or a head of a major division, be it global banking and markets, be it any of the other two or three major divisions that Goldman has at any given point or CFO or being a serious candidate to become the next CEO. There've been just recurring experiences and stories of women hitting a challenge there, a roadblock to getting those positions. So how many women have left the firm in recent months?Anna  Roughly 2/3 of the women who were partners at the end of 2018 have left Goldman or no longer have that of partner. This is according to a Wall Street Journal analysis that was a big part of our reporting. The same can be set of just under half of male partners at the time. By far, the most senior executives and senior women at the firm to leave is Stephanie Cohen. In addition, a few weeks ago, another very senior executive who's been with Goldman for roughly 30 years, Beth Hammack and a long-time partner at the firm announced that she is retiring from Goldman. Both of these women have had extremely senior positions at the firm. And out of Goldman's 25 person management committee, there are two women who are on that committee who have revenue producing positions at Goldman, and that is Stephanie Cohen, Beth Hammack, the two recently announced departures from Goldman. Anna Maria, I remember your reporting on this. This was an explicit goal for CEO David Solomon to recruit and retain more women in leadership. So why isn't it working and what's the firm's plan to address it?Anna  It's difficult to answer why it isn't working. A good amount of this has to do with positions opening up high up the ranks and the higher up the ranks you get, there's just fewer seats for people and it's obviously extremely competitive. You have these one-off situations that looking back on it, on some levels, it almost seems like missed opportunities for the firm. This isn't about checking the box just to check the box and say, okay, we put a woman in this spot. And that's what has not resonated well with a number of women senior executives at Goldman, those who've left, those who are still there, as well as even some male partners who I spoke with. Nobody has solved this issue of women being more present high up the ranks at big banks. But when you look at competitors of Goldman's, you see that they've made more progress. David Solomon sent a written statement to the Wall Street Journal as we were working on this story, and he stated, "Advancing women into our most senior ranks is an area where we have not accomplished our goals. Our longer-term success depends significantly on developing female partners in senior roles." Now, the firm talks about advancements that it's made elsewhere with regards to recruiting more women out of college, making more women vice presidents, managing directors, and also adding more women to its recent partner classes. But the issue we've been looking into reporting on is what happens after women are made partners, and that's where a lack of advancement into the firm's most senior ranks becomes evident. Wall Street Journal reporter, Anna Maria Andriotis. Thank you so much, Anna Maria.Anna  Thank you. And a call-out to you, our listeners. There's been a push for unionization in college sports most recently at Dartmouth. We'd like to hear what questions you have about what that means for colleges, athletes, and sports generally. Send us a note or even better record a voice memo on your phone and send it to wnpod@wsj.com. That's W-N-P-O-D@wsj.com. You can also leave us a voicemail at 212-416-4328. Just be sure to include your name and location because we might use it on the show. And that's what's news for this Monday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre Bienaimé with supervising producer Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Thanks for listening.