It is the end of an era as Japan quits negative interest rates. Plus Nvidia reveals new AI chips at its latest conference, dubbed AI-woodstock, and Israel sends officials to Washington amid Biden's growing concerns over a potential invasion of Rafah. Our position is that Hamas should not be allowed a safe haven in Rafah or anywhere else but a major ground operation there would be a mistake. It's Tuesday, March 19th. I'm Kate Bullivant for the Wall Street Journal and here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. We begin in Japan this morning where the country's central bank has ended a historic run of negative interest rates, raising rates for the first time in 17 years. It marks a milestone for one of the world's biggest economies amid a strengthening job market and a new era of stable inflation. Joining me now is the Journal's Tokyo Bureau Chief, Peter Landers. Peter, a significant move from the BOJ today. Tell us what did they say? They say Japan is on the road to stable inflation of about 2%. We've already been above that level for about two years now, and in light of that, the Bank of Japan says it's time to end these extraordinary monetary policy steps that it's taken over the last 14 years or so. They've ended negative interest rates. That was one of the most prominent steps. They've also ended an attempt to target the yield on 10-year Japanese government bonds. That's something that central banks don't normally do. The Bank of Japan has been doing that for nearly eight years. They were initially setting a target of around zero, now the target is being scrapped entirely. Now, the purpose of this was to control not just short-term rates, which is the traditional ambit of the central bank, but also longer term rates. So a company borrowing money that it needs to pay back over 10 years, that would be linked to the interest rate on the 10-year Japanese Government Bond. So if that interest rate is zero, that means that companies and consumers can borrow at extremely low rates, and that was the point of having this yield curve control. What the Bank of Japan is saying now is that it's okay to let the market determine that interest rate on the 10-year Japanese Government Bond. That's what markets usually do. And right now it's just slightly above 0.7%. So it's still very easy to get a loan at a low interest rate in Japan if you're a qualified borrower, whether you're a business or a person buying a home, interest Rates are still very low, and that is why the Bank of Japan felt that it didn't need to control that interest rate so strictly. And Peter, this comes off the back of a rebounding economy, right? Something we've been reporting on in recent months, not least last week, when the biggest trade union secured major wage increases for workers there. I think those wage numbers were a big deal for the Bank of Japan, showing that at least at large companies in Japan, the average wage increase this year is going to top 5%, and that's the biggest we've seen since 1991. So what they've really wanted to see all along is what they call a virtuous cycle of wages and prices. And we've had prices going up 2,3 4% over the last couple of years, and the question was whether wages would follow. Because until now, wages have been going up a little bit, but a lot of people are actually losing out in their daily lives because they're paying a lot more and they're only earning a tiny bit more. Now finally, with these wage numbers in place, the Bank of Japan can say people are seeing the benefits of positive inflation. The tight job market companies are passing on some of their higher profits to their workers, and that signals a healthy economy that means they don't need to have some of these emergency monetary policy steps. So how does this compare with other economies around the world? In the US the Fed begins, its meeting today, but there the conversation is quite different to what Japanese policy makers are dealing with. That's right, and the Bank of Japan is saying its monetary policy is still extraordinarily accommodative, they call it. That means it's easy to get credit at a very low interest rate. So the policy rate that they're setting today is between zero and 0.1%. Now, that's hardly tight monetary policy. In the US it's above 5%. So there's still a large interest rate, a gap, between the US and Japan, and that has tended to weaken the yen. The yen is in fact weakening a bit further today in light of the Bank of Japan saying that they don't intend to have a series of rapid race increases after today's action. Okay, so an improving economy, but not quite matching the strength of the US economy. Are there other caveats here that investors need to be aware of? I would say two caveats. One is domestic, that people in Japan, they don't actually feel the economy is all that great. They have been hit by higher inflation and just now they're beginning to see these wage increases. And so consumer spending in Japan is actually not all that strong. And then the other risk is more external, pointed out by the Bank of Japan itself today. They actually took a cautious outlook about the global economy. They said Japan's economy is likely to be under downward pressure stemming from a slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economy. So countries like China are having a lot of economic difficulties. Even the US economy is not growing all that rapidly, and those are the two biggest markets overseas for Japanese goods. Further, we have of course, a US presidential election this year. All kinds of uncertainties in overseas markets that the Bank of Japan is saying might require a revision to the economic outlook. Sounds like a case of wait and see Peter. Thanks so much for talking us through the news of the day. That was Peter Landers, our Tokyo Bureau chief. Sure thing. Another keenly watched market event was Nvidia's annual tech conference last night where it unveiled its highly anticipated new chips, Blackwell. Roughly 11,000 people filled the SAP Center in San Jose, California to hear Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang talk about the $2 trillion company's next generation of chips and how they will power artificial intelligence. According to Huang, the chips are much faster and larger than their predecessors and will be available later this year. With investments in AI skyrocketing Nvidia's quarterly sales have more than tripled over the past year. Meanwhile, shares in Google parent Alphabet jumped 6% Monday following a report by Bloomberg that Apple may use Google's generative AI tool called Gemini to power features in upcoming iPhone models. Katy Barnato is a markets editor for the journal and she says the report helped fuel a wider rally in tech shares yesterday as investors continue to focus on any and all AI news. Players like Apple, which haven't been able to make their footstep yet on AI, are really trying very hard now to catch up there. So that's pretty exciting because it involves two huge tech players potentially working together. That said, it remains unclear whether such a deal will come to fruition and Apple is also said to have previously met with OpenAI for discussions on licensing their large language model. Coming up, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Biden speak for the first time in a month amid a growing divide between the two allies. And more women are choosing the abortion pill. We've got those stories and more after the break. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has agreed to send a team of Israeli officials to Washington to discuss US concerns over a planned operation in the southern Gaza city of Rafah, which Israel says is Hamas's last holdout in the strip. It comes after the Israeli leader and President Biden spoke for the first time in over a month yesterday amid a growing divide between the two allies. Biden warned Netanyahu against an offensive in Rafah where more than a million displaced Palestinians are sheltering. Here's White House National Security Advisor, Jake SullivanJake Sullivan: From the US perspective, this is not a question of defeating Hamas. And anytime I hear an argument that says, if you don't smash into Rafah, you can't defeat Hamas, I say, that is a straw man. Our view is that there are ways for Israel to prevail in this conflict to secure its long-term future, to end the terror threat from Gaza and not smash into Rafah. That's what we're going to present in this integrated way when this team comes. We'll have a back and forth and we'll let you know how that unfolds as we go forward. The US and its allies have also been pushing Netanyahu's government to increase the flow of humanitarian aid into Gaza as signs of widespread hunger in the enclave mount. Meanwhile, lawmakers working on six annual spending bills have resolved a last-minute roadblock over border funding, setting the stage for Congress to review and approve the legislation ahead of a partial government shutdown this weekend. We've learned that congressional negotiators from both parties late Monday, reached a deal on border security funding. Though it is unclear whether that includes additional money for enforcing immigration laws as Republicans had wanted or for the White House priorities that the GOP previously saw as deal-breakers. The legislation will need to be drafted and circulated to members in coming days, potentially pushing a vote right up against the Friday funding deadline. More women are choosing the abortion pill after a clampdown on abortion rights in many US states changed when, how and where they get abortions following the fall of Roe v. Wade in 2022. The procedure made up almost two thirds of all abortions in the US last year, up from 53% in 2020 according to the Guttmacher Institute, a research group that supports abortion rights. The number and rate of abortions performed in the US also climbed last year even with near-total bans on the procedure in more than a dozen states. Access to the abortion pill has grown thanks to policy changes, including one that allows mifepristone, one of two drugs used in medication abortion, to be delivered by mail-order pharmacies. The Supreme Court plans to hear this month, arguments to challenge the relaxation of restrictions around mifepristone. Guaranteed income programs have sprung up in cities across the US in a bid to help households with low income receive monthly payments with no strings attached. The programs reflect a growing sentiment among economists and democratic circles that this is one of the most effective ways to distribute funds and support struggling Americans. But as US policy reporter, Andrew Restuccia explains, such initiatives are drawing pushback from Republicans. Dozens of cities and counties across the United States are implementing what they call guaranteed income programs. And that can be anywhere from $500 to $1000. Of course, detractors worry that the money could be used for non-necessities. So the data tell us though, is that the money tends to be used in almost all cases, for necessities, bills and groceries and things like that. This idea of giving people money directly is gaining more and more popularity across the country. On the federal level, there had been dalliances or experiments with this idea. During the pandemic, Republicans, both at the state and federal level, are working to limit or restrict these efforts, arguing that they're unfair and there's the potential for abuse of the money. And finally, March Madness gets underway this weekend amid a push for unionization in college sports, most recently at Dartmouth. What questions do you have about that and what does it mean for colleges, athletes, and sports in general? Send us a note or even better record a voice memo on your phone and send it to wnpod@wsj.com. That's W-N-P-O-D at WSJ.com. You can also leave us a voicemail at 212 416 4328. Just be sure to include your name and location. We might use it on the show. And that's What's News for Tuesday morning. Today's show was produced by Hattie Moir. Our supervising producers were Cristina Roca and Sandra Kilhof. And I'm Kate Bullivant for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back tonight with a new show. Until then, thanks for listening. US realtors grapple with a shift in how they get paid after a landmark settlement. And, Russia's backdoor to the global banking system is slamming shut. There is evidence that the US actions, whether business to the United Arab Emirates or sanctions have had an impact in Russia's trading activities, but also the ability for oligarchs to put the money safely in the UAE. Plus, US businesses want to revive expired tax breaks. Why Senate Republicans aren't on board? It's Tuesday, March 19th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. The Supreme Court has rejected an emergency appeal from the Biden administration to block Texas from implementing its own criminal law against illegal immigration. The administration argued states can't interfere with federal authority over the border. The Texas law makes illegal border crossing a state crime and allows state officials to conduct deportations. The measure has been on hold as the Supreme Court weighed the government's request to halt Texas from implementing it while litigation continues in the lower courts. The high court's order is not a final decision, but it signals the Texas law may fair better than a similar Arizona statute the high court struck down in 2012. A bill that would revive expired tax breaks for businesses is stalled in the Senate. The bipartisan bill had soared through the house earlier this year and it was backed by a broad coalition of supporters. But it's hit a wall in the Senate. Republicans in the chamber who typically back tax breaks for businesses aren't budging. But some businesses say it's a now or never moment. Joining me now to explain is our US tax policy reporter Richard Rubin. Welcome back, Richard. Sure. Thanks for having me. So Richard, Republicans typically support measures like this connected to businesses and these extensions would revive tax breaks for research and equipment spending, so why aren't GOP lawmakers behind the bill this time? It's because of other things in the bill. So they're really not having much in the way of disagreement about the business tax breaks, which are about half the bill. But there's another half of the bill. And part of the deal to get this bill through the house was there was an agreement where Republicans would get the business tax break, which some Democrats were fine with, and Democrats would get an expansion of the child tax credit, in some cases to families who didn't work in the particular tax year but might've worked in the year before. And that's been a problem for Republicans in the Senate, that they are concerned about this provision that would expand the child tax credit and allow people to use last year's income to qualify. And then the other thing too is senators, to put it simply, like to senate. And what I mean by that is that senators like to have the ability to amend bills, to change bills, to offer ideas to shape things. Here we have the reverse where the house has found the bipartisan deal and it's the Senate that is saying, "Whoa, whoa. We want a chance to change this." And then there's a third element, which is the election, where Senate Republicans who are in the minority now, 51-49, have a really good chance of being in the majority next year. So they are thinking, "Well, maybe we've got other tax bills we've got to push through next year. Maybe we should just deal with all of this then instead of cutting a deal with Democrats now." Businesses have framed this as a now or never moment. What do they say will happen if these tax breaks aren't revived? The biggest impact here is really about the research deductions in small businesses. So the 2017 tax law, they were looking for ways to raise money to offset the cost of cutting corporate tax rates. And so what they did was they said, "Okay, starting in 2022, companies, instead of deducting research costs, immediately you got to spread those over five years. And everyone's like, "Okay, fine. Congress will figure that out. They won't let that happen." And then it did happen starting in 2022. And for large businesses, think about Northrop Grumman and Lockheed, your big defense contractors really do a lot of research and are hit by this. For them it's a cash flow issue. They have higher tax bills now, smaller tax bills later. They don't enjoy that, but they're liquid enough that they can kind of handle that. For some of these smaller businesses that I've talked to, it's existential. They went from, for tax purposes, kind of barely breaking even, to now because they don't have those deductions for wages, showing these enormous profits in paying all these taxes. They don't have the ability to be nearly as liquid as a big company. Richard, given that history you just explained, I am wondering how this fight right now might impact the overall relationship between Republicans and US businesses who typically have a pretty cozy relationship. Are we seeing that start to change? It's definitely fraying. It's really about where the things that businesses want on taxes rank priority wise for Senate Republicans, and they're just a little bit lower right now. So it's not a full crack up of that relationship, but it's maybe not quite as tight as it was. And there's just a lot of frustration in the business community about exactly how this has been stalled right now and they're pushing all the buttons they've got. That's Wall Street Journal US tax policy reporter Richard Rubin. After selling ice cream for more than a hundred years, Ben & Jerry's owner, Unilever, may be losing its sweet tooth. Today, the company said it plans to separate its ice cream division, which also makes Walls, Talenti, Popsicle and Klondike into a standalone business. It's enlisting the business as a separate entity is the most likely outcome. A sale is also possible. Unilever and Anglo-Dutch Company also announced 7,500 mainly white collar job cuts as part of a restructuring program aimed at saving about $870 million over the next three years. Disney and its CEO, Bob Iger, got a big endorsement today and an ongoing proxy fight against activist investor Nelson Peltz. George Lucas, the creator of Star Wars and one of Disney's biggest individual shareholders, said he's confident in the company's leadership, adding, "Creating magic is not for amateurs." He also expressed confidence in Iger's leadership and track record at the company. Peltz' Hedge Fund, Trian Partners, has been trying to seize two board seats. Disney's also facing a challenge from another activist fund, Blackwells Capital, which is trying to gain shareholders support and seats to challenge Iger's strategy. Coming up, realtors are re-examining their careers after a groundbreaking settlement that could change the way they get paid. More after the break. Last week we told you about a groundbreaking settlement that could fundamentally change the way Americans buy and sell homes. On Friday, the National Association of Realtors announced it had settled legal claims that the real estate industry conspired to keep commissions artificially high. The agreement will give buyers more negotiating power over fees and will likely change how much of a home sales price will go to agents. That's left realtors grappling with a seismic shift in how they'll get paid. And many of the more than 1 million people who broker home buying and selling are now re-examining their careers. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal reporter Joseph De Avila. Welcome, Joseph.Joseph  Thanks for having me. So Joseph, this settlement would really be a big change for buyers and sellers. We talked on the show last week about how they're negotiating power could increase. But on the other side of this, what could it mean for realtors?Joseph  So this is going to change how realtors make money. Typically in the past, the realtors, both for the seller and for the buyer, they would split this commission that they get whenever a home is sold. Those terms were basically set by the seller. Now, those guarantees for the buyer's agent aren't necessarily going to be there in the future. And so this is going to give buyers the chance to negotiate the fees that are paid to their agent for the first time. I'm sure you've been hearing a range of reactions among realtors. How are they grappling with this settlement and these potential changes?Joseph  For some folks, they're still trying to fully digest what this settlement means and what all the requirements are and they're still trying to figure out basically how to move forward and deal with some of the ramifications of the decision. Right now, it's not really clear if sellers are going to continue to want to pay the commission fee for the buyer's agent. Another question that is there for the seller's agents is that if the sellers no longer are paying a commission to the buyer's agent, does that mean the overall net proceeds from the sale, is there going to be a deduction? So a lot of real estate agents are kind of grappling on what that means and how they can balance everything to make everything work still. Was anyone you spoke to not too concerned, thinking maybe this isn't as big of a shift as we might imagine?Joseph  Yes. I heard from some agents who feel like the status quo was probably going to be in place in the short term at least because they mentioned some of the benefits that sellers get when they pay the fees for the buyer's agent. Many agents I spoke with said it's oftentimes in the seller's interest to continue to pay the fees to make sure that they have a smooth process and to make sure that they have as many different prospective buyers and potential offers on hand as possible. So people think that the sellers will continue to pay these commission fees because it might be in their best interest. Did you talk to anyone who's ready to throw in the towel and leave the industry?Joseph  Some of the people that we spoke with, agents that were working part-time, felt like it might make their situation a little bit too difficult. And brokers who manage multiple agents told me that they think that if you're going to continue being a real estate agent after this, it might be a little bit hard to do it on a part-time basis if you're only relying on a few transactions every year. And that likely means that the field is going to be comprised more of full-time agents going forward. That's Wall Street Journal reporter Joseph De Avila. After Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the US and Europe tried to sever Moscow from the Western financial system. But, Russia always seemed to find workarounds. Now though, efforts to close such loopholes appear to be paying off. Dubai's main state-owned bank has scaled back its Russia business shutting some accounts held by oligarchs and traders of Russian oil. And Turkish lenders are growing more wary. Wall Street Journal Middle East correspondent Benoit Faucon says despite those changes, Russia may still find more ways to skirt the restrictions. Potentially, the new avenues that are opening up for the Russian companies selling oil or the wealthy Russians are places like Hong Kong and China typically. They're still fairly welcoming for these kind of transactions. Initially, it would've been very difficult for the US to balance its relationship. Obviously the Emiratis are buying large amounts of armament from the US. They are a key ally in the region, especially facing countries like Iran for instance. But it seems they kind of found a way, the Emiratis, to keep their economic interest sort of afloat without too much damage from the reduction of their relationship with Russian oil companies and wealthy Russians. So that took some time. I think the impression in the US is it was going too far. It was enabling the war efforts in Ukraine and it had to be somehow contained. And that's effectively what's happened. And finally, it turns out that to reach frequent flyer status, you don't even need to fly frequently. That's good news for me since I don't like flying anyway. Carriers like American Airlines have shifted from tying elite status to miles earned on flights to consumer spending on things like linked credit cards, branded shopping portals and other methods. That's created some tension between frequent flyers at American Airlines who earn their status at 30,000 feet after all and these so-called frequent buyers who can earn their status right here on the ground. Wall Street Journal reporter Kris Frieswick explains. Only American has so fully embraced the fact that you don't even have to get on an airplane to achieve elite status that American offers to its flyers, which is Executive Platinum. And so the people that have earned their status the old-fashioned way are a little upset that if they're in line for an upgrade, a lot of times somebody who's just simply spent their way to a higher status will jump them in the line even though that person might not fly nearly as much as the person who's lower down on the upgrade list. So there's some tension there. And some of the people that I talked to said that they had actually kind of been bullied off some of the Facebook and Reddit forums devoted to elite status because of this. Earned points are also creating a new battleground for couples. If both spouses have their own accounts and credit cards, who gets to pay household expenses and rack up all those points? The director of American Airlines loyalty program said the company doesn't want to sow marital discord, but that "some friendly competition is always good." And that's What's News for this Tuesday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre Bienaimé and Anthony Bansie with supervising producer Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Thanks for listening.