Apple faces fresh legal challenges as five tech companies file suit over its app store. Plus, Speaker of the House Mike Johnson says, "Enough's enough to dissident Republicans." And plans to rely on Democrats to avoid a government shutdown. And state capitalism. What is it and why do American presidents love it so much? The government doesn't actually go out and buy companies or order them around, but it sort of intervenes regularly and says, "Hey businesses, this is what we think is the national interest. This is what you should be doing." It's Thursday, March 21st. I'm Peter Granitz for The Wall Street Journal filling in for Luke Vargas. And here's the A.M. Edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories, moving your world today. Meta Platforms, Microsoft, X, Spotify, and Match Group have filed legal petitions protesting Apple's app store policies. The five companies are objecting to how the tech giant has complied with the federal court ruling that ordered Apple to allow alternative payment methods. Apple charges up to a 30% commission for purchases in the app store for services or one-time fees. A rate that developers say is too high, but which Apple has defended saying it invests in privacy and security measures that protect users. Sam Shechner is the Journal's European tech reporter. These rivals are going to continue trying to fight to force the maker of iPhones to loosen its controls over third party software on its platform. And they're fighting this in the US in court. The EU recently fined Apple in a case involving Spotify and there's a new law in Europe, the Digital Markets Act that has led to disputes as well. The services business through the app store is one of Apple's biggest businesses, and so the question really is how much control will they continue to have over that and what kinds of commissions will they be able to get in the future? And will what consumers pay to use third party apps, will that money go entirely to those app developers? Will it go in part to Apple and how will they divide up that pie? That's billions of dollars at stake. Apple is also facing an investigation by the Justice Department, which could soon file an antitrust complaint about its business practices. Meanwhile, Reddit has priced its IPO at the top of its target range, given the company evaluation of roughly $6.4 billion. The social media forum is set to go public later today under the ticker RDDT price in its shares at $34 a piece. Our Social Media Reporter Sarah Needleman, says the valuation is on the higher end and that future revenues could prove even more lucrative for Reddit. The company makes money mostly from advertising, and what's interesting is they built their own in ad network in the past, a couple of years from the ground up, so they're not relying on third parties to automate ads. Advertising is the vast majority of the revenue, but there is a new twist, that is AI. So what Reddit has been doing recently is it started selling access to its data, its API. And the biggest customers, who'd they hope to be the biggest customers licensing IT or AI companies. So that's a whole new line of revenue coming in for Reddit. It's still small, it's still early days, but that could be a big change for the company. And you can hear much more about Reddit's IPO on today's Tech News Briefing podcast wherever you get your podcasts. And the Bank of England will today round out a banner week for central banks after news from the BOJ, ECB and Fed this week. Yesterday, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell signaled three rate cuts are still on the cards for this year, despite stickier than expected inflation. That means investors now think the Fed will cut rates by June, a move expected to be echoed by the European Central Bank as well. Paul Hannon is an economics editor for Dow Jones Newswires and says Central banks are finally starting to see inflation stabilize. The Swiss National Bank has surprisingly cut its key interest rate, and in doing that it's become the first central bank from a rich advanced economy to lower borrowing costs since this surge in inflation started way back in 2021. So this is definitely a sign that across rich countries as a whole, interest rates are likely to fall. The Bank of England has been a little bit vague about exactly when it will lower its key rates, and most investors expect that to happen in August. But as the Swiss Central Bank has just demonstrated, investor expectations can turn out to be wrong, and it may be possible that the Bank of England will come in earlier, possibly alongside the Fed and the ECB in June. Israeli security officials are crafting a plan to distribute aid in Gaza. That is according to both Israeli and Arab officials. It's being led by a top Israeli general who has been traveling to regional capitals to garner support for the effort. It does not yet have the support of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu because it could involve people close with the Palestinian authority, the body that governs the West Bank. Journal Middle East Editor Michael Amon says the proposal would have anti-Hamas Palestinians run aid distribution networks throughout Gaza. So the aid would come in from multiple places. There is humanitarian aid being brought in by the UN and the WFP, that has slowed down to a trickle, but Israel and the US and Arab governments are working to get that boosted. So that would be one source of aid. Israel has opened up a new land crossing in the north and is escorting aid in with troops. And that would also be a big source of aid that would go to this network of distributors. And then there's also a sea corridor in which aid is inspected by Israelis in Cyprus and then shipped to a port being built in Gaza. He says it could be weeks or months before it could be implemented. This is part of the evacuation plan actually that Israel has begun creating for getting civilians out of the city of Rafah, which is a border town in southern Gaza. That is the last stronghold of Hamas. Israel is planning and offensive on Rafah, but has held back as ceasefire talks are ongoing in Qatar with Hamas, the US, and other Arab governments. If all goes well in an ideal world, civilians would be moved out of Rafah into displacement camps, many of them along the beach, running north, north to south. And this aid distribution network would in large part be aimed at feeding the people in those camps, which could be 750,000 to a million people. On Capitol Hill, Speaker of the House Mike Johnson has indicated he will move forward with legislation to avoid a partial government shutdown this weekend, defying members of his own caucus who want to slow the process down. Both Chambers of Congress need to pass the remaining six funding bills before tomorrow's deadline. Many of Johnson's fellow Republicans objected to the short turnaround, arguing that Johnson must follow house rules and make the text available 72 hours before a vote. But with a tight deadline, Johnson will bring the bill forward and will need to rely on Democratic votes to pass it. We have to govern and we have to demonstrate that we can keep the train on the tracks and we are. Johnson is using a procedure that does not require the 72-hour window, but that path means the spending bills will need a two thirds majority to pass. Donald Trump's social media platform could be listed on the stock market as early as next week. That would lead to a major windfall for the former president as much as $3.5 billion dollars. Truth Social's parent company is set to go public by merging with a special purpose acquisition company. If shareholders approve the merger Friday, Trump's company could replace the SPAC on the market as early as Monday. Truth Social has failed to catch on with users and has performed poorly financially. It burned through tens of millions of dollars in cash, but the valuation of the SPAC that it hopes to merge with has soared to $6 billion. Trump owns 60% of the shares. He would have to hold the shares until September before he could sell them, but regulatory filings show he could request a waiver to sell them early or borrow against their value. The Truth Social valuation comes as Trump faces a cash crunch and remains unable to secure a bond to guarantee payment of a $454 million fraud judgment against him. The deadline to do so is also Monday. Coming up, subsidies, tax breaks, the bully pulpit using the powers of the federal government to influence business. Our economics commentator says presidents of both parties embrace state capitalism. We've got that story and more after the break. If TikTok gets sold, the decision to do so will not be made in its boardroom. The real deciders will be in Washington. The same goes for U.S. Steel, Washington will ultimately decide whether the iconic Pennsylvania company gets bought by a Japanese firm or one based in Ohio. That is because the United States is slouching towards state capitalism. So writes our Chief Economics Commentator Greg Ip. Greg, lay it out. How do you define state capitalism? Well, most people have heard of socialism, which is where the government largely controls or owns the means of production. State capitalism is a more lukewarm version of government intervention. The government doesn't actually go out and buy companies or order them around, but it sort of intervenes regularly and says, "Hey businesses, this is what we think is the national interest. This is what you should be doing, and we're going to pass laws. We're going to change taxes. We're going to use the bully pulpit to make sure you do that." And it goes all the way from extreme versions like you have in China where Beijing literally does control many companies and order other companies around to what I would call the version that the US is slouching towards, where increasingly Congress and the President and various political figures see it as their duty and their privilege and their right to basically tell companies what to do because it fits with whatever their definition of the national interest is. And you write that it isn't just one party that believes in this system. Both Joe Biden and Donald Trump have embraced state capitalism. Perhaps without saying as much, give us some examples. Well, right, I mean, first of all, the United States has never been a pure, let's say, fair paradise. I mean you only have to look at the military industrial complex to see that government and business have always been intertwined to some extent. But at least it's a matter of principle, US leaders on both sides more or less subscribed to the idea that free market capitalism was the most superior system and that private business should be allowed to decide how to allocate capital to what was best for their shareholders. But I don't think either Trump or Biden believe that. I'm not sure if either of them ever have. I mean Trump in his first term in office made that clear telling companies not to move production to other countries using trade law, tariffs and so forth to punish foreign companies and aid American companies. And taking extremely personal opinions and approaches to decisions about, for example, what mergers were allowed to happen, even whether TikTok should be bought or sold. Joe Biden's version of state capitalism is perhaps a little less personal. He sort of embraces industrial policy. We should be handing out subsidies and tax breaks to favored companies for things like green energy. But when last week he said Nippon Steel should not be allowed to buy U.S. Steel, he went beyond that to a very political interpretation of state capitalism. Effectively, he doesn't want a takeover to occur that hurts his political base, which is unionized workers. What's the risk here, is it the message that business can't be certain of what's to come in the United States? I think there's a couple of risks. The first is that from a matter of basic economics is that when businesses are motivated by something other than what's the highest reach around their money, they make poor investments. Another is that honestly, it's very difficult to actually do state capitalism smartly. You end up passing one rule like a tariff and then passing another rule like a subsidy to make up for the damage of the first rule. The final risk is that essentially people in power end up being incapable of distinguishing between the national interest in their own personal interest. Trump was for TikTok being sold. Now, apparently he's against it. And same with Biden. I mean whether or not he wins Pennsylvania that seems to be driving this latest decision. And businesses themselves naturally respond to these signals. So Cleveland-Cliffs a competitor to Nippon Steel, is working the political system for its purposes to try and defeat Nippon Steel's bid. And if you look at the various machinations for what happens to TikTok, we see Steve Mnuchin, a former treasury secretary for Donald Trump, is now making his own play for it, which clearly one can see probably has some connection to the politicization of the ultimate outcome of that decision. Is there any concrete evidence that this state capitalism in the United States is actually deterring businesses from operating there? It's probably a little bit too soon, but you can certainly see in our conversations that they are sort of taking into account the possibility of political interference in the way they behave, the investments that they make and so forth. This is a sort of thing that we'll see its effects felt more subtly and slowly over time. But presumably these companies are going to make decisions more for the medium term instead of the long term because they have to think about the next political election. Well, certainly they're going to try and do their best for the medium term or the long term. For example, whether Intel is going to invest a lot of money in semiconductor facilities in the United States is both a function of the subsidies that it hopes to get to do that made in America construction, but also has to fit with its five to 10 year plan. But the huge risk, of course, is that any business that bets on any continuity in the direction of state capitalism is at risk of a new president coming in, deciding to go in a completely different direction. So one aspect of Biden's state capitalism is he wants electric vehicle batteries to be made in America, but he doesn't want them made by Chinese companies. So if you're Ford, you have to decide, well, do we want to do business with the Chinese battery company or do we not? If you're General Motors, you have to make the same decision and you have to weigh the possibility that a few years from now, Donald Trump will be the president and he'll decide to just ditch the entire program altogether. Greg Ip is the Journal's chief economics commentator. Thanks for your time. Thank you very much for having me. And finally, the first gains of the NCAA tournament have begun. This year's March madness gets underway amid a push for unionization in college sports, most recently at Dartmouth. What questions do you have about that and what it means for colleges, athletes, and sports in general? Send us a note, or even better, record a voice memo on your phone and send it to wnpod@wsj.com. That is W-N-P-O-D@wsj.com. You can also leave us a voicemail at 212-416-4328. Just be sure to include your name and location because we might use it on the show. And that is What's News for Thursday morning. Today's show was produced by Hattie Moir and Kate Bullivant. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kilhof. And I'm Peter Granitz for The Wall Street Journal filling in for Luke Vargas. We'll be back tonight with a new show. Until then, thanks for listening. The US Justice Department sues Apple, alleging it exploits monopoly power. And federal regulators say large grocery chains use their size and scale to edge out smaller rivals during the pandemic. This report really falls in line with a lot of what we already know as consumers. Grocery prices have been high and stayed high. Plus Reddit stock jumps in its market debut. It's Thursday, March 21st. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that move the world today. The US Justice Department, 15 states and the District of Columbia have sued Apple, alleging the tech giant exploits an illegal monopoly. The suit claims Apple prevented software developers and mobile gaming companies from offering better options on the iPhone, leveraging its dominance to block software and limit the functionality of competing devices, resulting in higher prices for consumers. Apple says it plans to vigorously defend against the lawsuit. With today's filing, US officials have now sued all four of the tech giants they've been focused on. Wall Street Journal technology editor Brad Olson has more. Apple has also faced a lot of regulatory scrutiny over the app store. This is very distinct from that. It's actually about how Apple interacts with outside parties that want access to its users. Also, the other cases that the different regulators have brought against the other tech companies are all based on different aspects of what those companies do. In the Google case, one of the big sticking points is how Google deals with ad software. Another aspect of the case is a deal that it has with Apple to be the default search provider on the Safari browser. In the case with Meta platforms, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, the Federal Trade Commission has scrutinized Meta's acquisition of WhatsApp and Instagram and said that there were anti-competitive aspects of that. With Amazon, it has to do with the third-party marketplace and how Amazon interacts with its sellers. With all these four giant technology companies, it's an effort by the Biden administration to really reign in the power of big tech. Shares of Reddit soared more than 48% in its stock market debut, which we previewed this morning. It's a vote of confidence in the social media company whose users fueled the meme stock craze, and it gives the company a valuation of around $9.5 billion. In the broader market, all three major US indexes finished higher, notching new record closes. Investors are optimistic a surge in borrowing costs is coming to an end soon. The Dow led the way, inching closer to the 40,000 mark. The CEOs of major airlines are requesting a meeting with Boeing's directors. As we've been reporting, frustrations with the plane maker have been growing after the January blowout on a 737 Max and production problems that have roiled the industry. We report exclusively that major carriers want to express their concerns to Boeing. Here now with more on this scoop is Wall Street Journal aviation reporter Andrew Tangle. Andrew, what do the CEOs hope to accomplish at this meeting? The CEOs want a plan. They've been frustrated not only by the Alaska Airlines incident, but also the fallout: mounting delays, production issues, scrutiny by various government agencies. Alaska Airlines itself was the butt of a joke on Saturday Night Live, raising questions in the minds of passengers about the safety of the aircraft that the airlines fly. And so the airline CEOs want some assurances that the board of directors at Boeing has a plan for the recovery of the company because they, like the rest of the United States, need Boeing to succeed. How is Boeing responding to this request so far, and what are the next steps? Boeing has responded to the initial request to meet with the board of directors with an offer to send board members to meet the airline CEOs. The board members may include Chairman Larry Kellner, who used to run Continental Airlines, which has since become part of United, so he can understand what it's like to run a carrier and can speak the same language. Those meetings will apparently take place in the coming weeks, and it'll be interesting to see what the outcome is. That's Wall Street Journal aviation reporter Andrew Tangle. Coming up, federal regulators say large grocery chains edged out smaller rivals during the pandemic. More on a new report out today after the break. Do you remember empty store shelves at your local grocery store during the height of the pandemic or jockeying to schedule a delivery of food and household goods? In a new report out today, the Federal Trade Commission faults big grocers for pandemic tactics, accusing them of using their size and scale to get an edge over smaller competitors, as stores struggled with shortages and distribution bottlenecks. FTC Chair Lina Khan said, "Dominant firms used this moment to come out ahead, at the expense of their competitors and the communities they serve." Joining me now with more on this is Wall Street Journal logistics and supply chain reporter Liz Young. Welcome, Liz. Thanks so much, Annmarie. Thanks for having me. Liz, what exactly does the FTC allege these large grocers did? Weren't all chains, to some extent, struggling with supply chain issues during the pandemic? That's definitely right, Annmarie. Chains of all sizes had these problems. They couldn't get toilet paper. Later on, they couldn't get other materials. The FTC in this report specifically looked at the effect that large grocery retailers had on the broader market and found that they were able to do things like put stricter delivery requirements into place for their suppliers, so requiring them to meet a certain higher percentage of on time or in full shipments, which were things that if the vendors didn't comply, they could get hit with a fine. Of course, to avoid the fine, many vendors then went in and delivered goods to those larger retailers before some of their smaller rivals. These tactics, the FTC says, were a way for larger retailers to use that size, use that role in supply chains to keep their shelves stocked even as their smaller competitors had a much harder time. To be clear, the FTC is not blaming these larger grocers for all the bottlenecks that we saw during the pandemic, just that they were able to sort of edge their power with their scale and size. That's exactly right. The FTC was talking about how broadly there were all of these supply chain disruptions. Larger retailers were just able to use their size and their scale to secure supply for their shelves to keep their shelves stocked, even as smaller retailers were facing greater difficulties doing so. Are there any consequences as a result of this report? What are the companies going to be on the hook for potentially? The FTC report does not actually allege any wrongdoing. The next step will, I'm sure, certainly be for lawmakers to take a look at this, for committees to take a look at this. The FTC also looked at grocery pricing and found that revenue growth at large retailers had outpaced the cost increases that they faced. That was something that the FTC said warranted further inquiry by both the FTC and policymakers. Liz, I wonder how this report's being received generally, as we see consumers still facing higher food costs as one of those sticky areas of inflation that seems to persist as other prices are starting to come down. Absolutely. This report really falls in line with a lot of what we already know as consumers. Grocery prices have been high and stayed high. I think it also comes at a time when President Biden in his State of the Union speech was criticizing this practice of shrinkflation. You think of a bag of chips: it's the same price, but there's less chips in the bag. And we've also seen the FTC try to crack down on what they've called anti-competitive behavior that could be putting pressure on pricing upward, blocking the bid by Kroger to buy its rival Albertsons, for example. That's Wall Street Journal logistics and supply chain reporter Liz Young. Speaking of grocery stores, coming up this weekend, we're answering your questions about food price inflation, from what causes it to how consumers and companies are coping. That's on What's News Sunday, available right here in the What's News feed. And we're looking for your input on an upcoming episode focusing on unionization in sports, most recently at Dartmouth University. We'd like to know what questions you have about what that means for colleges, athletes, and sports in general. Send us a note or, even better, record a voice memo on your phone and send it to wnpod@wsj.com. That's W-N-P-O-D @wsj.com. You can also leave us a voicemail at (212) 416-4327. Just be sure to include your name and location because we might use it on the show. Thanks for sharing your thoughts and questions. Us home sales rose in February from the month before, marking the first time in more than two years that sales increased two months in a row. Existing home sales surged 9.5% to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.38 million. The data from the National Association of Realtors defied expectations. Economists surveyed by the Wall Street Journal had estimated sales of previously owned homes would fall more than a percent. Last year, home cells fell to their lowest levels in nearly 30 years. We report exclusively that certain Medicare members could get help paying for the weight loss drug Wegovy. That's as long as they have a history of heart disease and are using it to prevent recurring heart attacks and strokes. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid services say Medicare Part D drug benefit plans, which are administered by private insurers, may cover anti-obesity medications if they receive approval for an additional use that's considered medically accepted under federal law. The new guidance cracks open Medicare reimbursement of the popular drugs, possibly paving the way for thousands of new people to get prescriptions. It could also add to pressure on commercial health plans to cover them. Finally, earlier this year, two scientists flagged dozens of research papers containing copied or doctored images. Some of them were connected to the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical School. As a result, papers were retracted or corrected, sending shockwaves through the scientific community. Those errors were flagged with the help of a software tool that can find problematic visuals much more quickly than people using just their eyes. For example, common types of images examined include photographs of tissue slices and cells. Researchers say no two tissue samples taken from different animals should ever look the same under a microscope. When they do, that's a red flag. Science reporter Nidhi Subbaraman says one of the next challenges is identifying material created by artificial intelligence. People are already worried that generative AI or just sophisticated algorithms are ginning up whole chunks of text and being stuck into papers, and they're worried that images could be fabricated in that way from whole cloth. What looks like a closeup image of brain tissue might have been just cooked up by a computer. And how would you know? And that's the thing that these software tools are trying to figure out how to get a grip on. Are there any telltale signs that this wasn't created in the lab but was actually just wholly manufactured? The technology still isn't perfect. A research integrity director at Springer Nature, which publishes about 3000 journals including Nature, says the company still evaluates every red flag individually. A final note: an earlier version of this episode incorrectly said 17 states were involved in the DOJ suit against Apple. In fact, 15 states and the District of Columbia joined the suit. That's what's news for this Thursday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre Bienaimé with supervising producer Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning.