In a shift in its policy toward Israel, the US pushes for an immediate Gaza ceasefire at the UN Security Council. Plus, new signs that US mortgage rates could stay higher for longer. In the last couple of months, the biggest increase in sales has been for homes that went for more than $1 million way, way, way above the national average. And we're seeing this in other parts of the economy where people on the lower income spectrum are getting harder hit by higher rates. And genocide fears resurface in Darfur as the war for control of Sudan rages on. It's Friday, March 22nd. I'm Luke Vargas for The Wall Street Journal, and here is the A.M. Edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. The US is set to raise its diplomatic pressure on Israel today as it brings a resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza, up for a vote at the UN Security Council. It marks a shift in Washington's approach to the war in a forum where it has usually defended Israel and comes as Secretary of State Anthony Blinken travels throughout the Middle East to promote a ceasefire that could unlock more humanitarian aid for Gaza. Here he was in Egypt yesterday. There's a clear consensus around a number of shared priorities. First, the need for an immediate sustained ceasefire with the release of hostages. That would create space to surge more humanitarian assistance to relieve the suffering of many people and to build something more enduring. While it is rare for the US to back a UN resolution that Israel would oppose wording in the draft that mentions restarting operations in Gaza after a pause could prompt a veto by Russia or other permanent security council members, as could the call that the ceasefire be tied to the release of hostages from Hamas as Israel has demanded. In Washington a marathon effort to fund the federal government could be nearing the finish line today as House lawmakers are expected to pass a $1.2 trillion package of spending bills that would approve funding for the Defense Department and several other federal agencies for the rest of the fiscal year and wrap up a contentious process that's brought the government to the brink of a shutdown several times. After approval in the House, the Senate would have to agree to speed up the usual timeline for bill consideration in order to prevent a shutdown just after midnight tonight. And facing federal corruption charges, New Jersey Democratic Senator Bob Menendez says he won't enter the Democratic primary for his seat this year, but he is leaving open the possibility of an independent reelection bid. Menendez has pleaded not guilty to charges of bribery and conspiring to act as an illegal foreign agent, and he's remaining in office as he contests the charges. However, his announcement signals that he may be bowing to political realities as state Democrats appear ready to move on from the scandal plagued lawmaker. Coming up, troubling signs that history may be repeating itself as our Africa Bureau Chief shares witness accounts of atrocities committed in Darfur, two decades after mass killings in Sudan drew worldwide attention. We've got that story and more after the break. I lost my uncles and my grandaunts, so sorry. Yeah, there's a lot of loss- Yeah, there is. ... and a lot of pain. Yeah, even a lot of pain and a lot of missing. That was the voice of Huda Humza, a refugee from Sudan's Darfur region, which is in the throes of a civil war. And her story is just one in a grim pattern of atrocities perpetrated by mostly Arab fighters against the region's Black indigenous communities over the past 11 months. Officials say these acts are a continuation of the mass killings in Darfur two decades ago and are being revived amid a broader war for control over Africa's third largest country. The Journal's Africa Bureau Chief Gabriele Steinhauser has spoken to more than four dozen refugees as well as aid workers, diplomats and international experts who are monitoring the violence in Darfur and documenting abuses against civilians on an industrial scale. Gabriele, I imagine many listeners will be aware of the genocide in Darfur 20 years ago. Tell us though, what has happened there more recently. So what happened was that last April we saw a war breaking out between Sudan's top two generals, one commanding the military, the other one commanding this militia known as the Rapid Support Forces, which is basically a successor to the Janjaweed that a lot of listeners may remember from that earlier genocide in the early 2000s. So these two guys with their respective fighting forces are battling for control in Sudan. Now in Darfur, which is this region in Western Sudan, this war has kind of created an opening for what a lot of people watching this say is really a continuation of the atrocities that we witnessed in the early 2000s, which the US considers a genocide. Gabriele, you have spoken to dozens of people in refugee camps and you're reporting seems to suggest some of the details about how systemic killings and other atrocities are being carried out. What are you hearing? Right. I mean, we went to interview refugees in refugee camps in Chad, just across the border from Darfur, and it was just striking, you randomly walk up to somebody and pretty much everybody has some horrible story. They've either lost relatives, some people had been shot themselves, some people had been beaten themselves. It's just that the scale that was so incredibly striking, I mean these are not sort of random acts of cruelty, but really well organized acts that the US government has said amount to ethnic cleansing, deliberate attacks on women, on children, on civilians. So we've spoken to women who were raped, who were beaten, who were shot point blank while fleeing with their children on their backs or holding their hands. And this militia at the center of this, the Rapid Support Forces, it's the successor of the Janjaweed and the way they're going about this really seems to be informed by their experience of the early 2000s. Almost every refugee I spoke to, they had their phones stolen. And yes, this is part of looting for financial gain, but it's also a way of destroying evidence of avoiding footage of atrocities and the people who committed them filtering out to the wider world. I also spoke to experts who use satellite images to document atrocities, and they're saying in several cases it seems like the RSF was taking advantage of cloud cover to perpetrate attacks. They also regularly knock out civilian communications. So there really seems to be a concerted effort to stop the world from seeing what is happening in Darfur. Gabriele, the details that you've picked up on in your conversations with people fleeing Darfur and the fact that this is in some ways a runback of what occurred 20 years ago I think is hard to stomach. Why is the international community not more aware of this conflict? I think in many ways there's just a bit of atrocity fatigue. We have two very big high profile conflicts taking place at the same time. There's obviously Russia's invasion of Ukraine. There's Israel's war in Gaza following the terrorist attacks of October 7th, and that is taking up a lot of oxygen. Gabriele, what consequences is that lack of attention from the part of the international community having on the ground? I mean, any aid organization you speak to will tell you that they're having an extremely hard time raising funds to help those refugees who've actually made it out of Sudan as well as the millions of people who've been displaced inside Sudan. The World Food Program warned just last week that if they don't get more funding, they will have to stop food aid in Chad to Sudanese refugees as early as April. So that's just in a couple of weeks, and that would take us back really to the situation that Huda and others experienced when they first arrived in Chad, where there was just nothing. And the only people who were around to help them was the Chadians who were already living in these villages that were suddenly flooded by refugees desperately fleeing these atrocities. In that time, I saw there's no life at all because I haven't even a cup of water to give my children, but the community which exist here, so kindLuke Vargas: Gabriele, given that you've now documented that these atrocities are happening and we can hear from some of the people who've experienced them, is it clear what the outlook from here could be? Is there any indication you're reporting some of the awareness that's trying to be drummed up here could have an effect, could possibly change things? Well, I do think that there is finally a little bit more attention being paid to what is happening in Darfur and Sudan more broadly. So the US just announced a special envoy who's now traveling the region to find avenues for negotiations for a serious peace negotiations. We also have a resolution in the Senate by a bipartisan group of senators who want to recognize the current atrocities as another genocide. And after the article was published yesterday, I got a message from one of the aides of one of these senators and he's passing around this article to raise awareness and get people on board for taking action. As for the warring parties themselves, I haven't seen any serious signs that they are open to actually ending this war. They seem committed to fighting this out until one of them wins. So I fear that what we're going to see just in the coming weeks and months is more human suffering at a moment when millions of people are according to the United Nations on the brink of famine. Gabriele Steinhauser is The Wall Street Journal's Africa Bureau Chief. Gabriele, thank you so much for bringing us this story and making us aware of the situation there. No, thank you for giving it some more airtime. I appreciate it. Mortgage rates in the US are likely to remain higher than most people are expecting, despite indications from the Fed that interest rates will come down later this year. Federal mortgage lender Fannie Mae, is now predicting that rates on a 30 year fixed will stand at 6.4% by the end of the fourth quarter, an increase from its prior view of 5.9%. Alex Frangos is a Journal finance editor. Everyone's hoping to get back to the good old days before the pandemic when mortgage rates were impossibly low. Part of the reason they were so low is that the Fed was buying mortgage bonds artificially suppressing the market. And we know that the Fed is not going to doing that anytime soon. And so as the market normalizes, the Fed rate cuts, they will cause mortgage rates to come down, but they're not going to come down as fast as they would have previously. Yesterday's home sales data revealed a pickup in the overall housing market, albeit primarily for sales in homes worth over $1 million as high interest rates continue to disproportionately affect lower income households. The number of Airbnbs available in New York has dropped dramatically over the past six months since the city put in place short term rental rules. Hosts now have to go through a lengthy process in order to register their properties with the city and get a license. And as Travel Reporter Allison Pohle explains that means that visitors have fewer options if they're looking for a short-term rental for their stay. There's so many legal challenges to getting this type of regulation in place and Airbnb and the city went back and forth in court for years before this actually went into effect. They have said that they hope the city revisits the regulations, but they've also said that no one city makes up a large portion of their revenue because they do business in so many places. People are confused. There's just a dramatic drop in the number of listings available. People don't think necessarily to look at Airbnb in the city anymore, or if they do they find such limited options. So if people aren't considering Airbnb for their New York travels, then that could affect the way that they approach staying in a short-term rental when they travel to various cities. New York's Office of Special Enforcement has approved approximately 1700 short-term rentals, and some 3000 are still under review. And before we go a heads up that we've made a correction to last night's episode. In that show, we incorrectly said that 17 states were involved in the Justice Department's antitrust suit against Apple, when in fact 15 states in the District of Columbia had joined the suit. And that is What's News for Friday morning. Today's show was produced by Charlie Duffield and Kate Bullivant. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kilhof. And I'm Luke Vargas for The Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. Otherwise, have a great weekend. Thanks for listening.  Who's fueling the surge in shares of Donald Trump's SPAC? It's just like GameStop. We see some fireworks and that euphoria is back. We're seeing the same meme, stock craze, but this time with a touch of politics mixed in. And at least 40 people were killed in an attack at a concert venue outside Moscow. Plus, Kate Middleton, the Princess of Wales, is being treated for cancer. It's Friday, March 22nd. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for The Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that move the world today. We start with a developing story. In Russia, authorities say explosions rocked a concert hall just outside Moscow and gunman opened fire on concert goers Friday evening, killing at least 40 people. The Federal Security Service said more than a hundred others have been injured. Authorities are investigating the incident as a terrorist attack. For more on this developing story, head to wsj.com. Kate Middleton, the Princess of Wales, says she's being treated for cancer. Since she underwent abdominal surgery in January, her absence from royal events has fueled concerns and rampant online speculation about her health. Today, she did not reveal what type of cancer, but said she was in the early stages of preventive chemotherapy. We hope that you'll understand that as a family, we now need some time, space, and privacy while I complete my treatment. My work has always brought me a deep sense of joy and I look forward to being back when I'm able. But for now, I must focus on making a full recovery. The announcement comes at a challenging time for the British Royal family, King Charles III is also battling the disease. House lawmakers have narrowly approved a $1.2 trillion package of bills in the hopes of averting a partial government shutdown at midnight. The measures would approve funding for the Defense Department and several other federal agencies for the rest of the fiscal year, wrapping up a lengthy and contentious process that's brought the federal government to the brink of shutdown several times since late last year. Congressional Reporter Katy Stech Ferek says the bill's now in the Senate's hands.Katy  This morning a big piece of the puzzle was settled when House lawmakers passed this bill. It was incredibly narrow. It really came down to the wire. More Republicans voted against the bill than for the bill, and that was a big signal to Speaker Johnson that a lot of Republicans are unhappy about the lack of conservative wins, that they feel that he was able to secure. Speaker Johnson's in a tough position, he doesn't have a ton of leverage with the Democrat controlled Senate and President Biden, the bill will head over to the Senate for a vote. And the good news is it appears that there are enough votes to pass the legislation into law. The question mark that we have is whether or not they can do it in time. If the Senate doesn't approve the bill before midnight, Katy says there could be a limited shutdown on the weekend, but that would likely have a minimal impact. Coming up, Donald Trump's social media platform is going public. Who's investing in it, after the break? Donald Trump's social media platform Truth Social hasn't performed so well as a business, but it could be the best investment the former president's ever made. Today, investors approved a plan to take the company public via SPAC or Special Purpose Acquisition Company. It's expected to begin trading next week under its new ticker, DJT. Those are Donald Trump's initials. And the former president's, 60% stake is worth roughly $3 billion. Of course, that's depending on how the stock trades, but could it really help save Trump's fortune? Here now with more is Wall Street Journal Markets Reporter Charley Grant. Welcome back, Charley. Thanks for having me. All right. So Charley, this involves a company we haven't mentioned on What's News in a while, Digital World Acquisition Corp or DWAC. That's the shell company taking Truth Social public. It's been on a tear recently. In fact, it's giving me a little bit of that meme stock déjà vu. So who is pouring money in and why? It's like GameStop all over again. The main driver of this investment are diehard supporters of former President Trump who want to see him back in the White House and they want to see him get this windfall you mentioned. Let's make Trump a trillionaire one poster said. And it is based on support for the president and his brand rather than a long-term investment based on the underlying fundamentals of the social network. How well is it performing? Well, it's just like GameStop in that when people band together and all buy a troubled beaten down stock at the same time we see some fireworks. And as markets have come back to all time highs and that euphoria is back, we're seeing the same meme stock craze, but this time with a touch of politics mixed in. So let's talk about Trump's finances. We've reported this week that he hasn't been able to secure a bond for a $454 million judgment against him in a civil fraud case. The New York Attorney General can begin enforcing that judgment and seizing his assets next week. So how could this SPACs performance potentially help his financial situation? Will it be enough and in time? Yes. Well, the thing about stocks is if they're valuable, you can sell them and turn them into cash. And Trump needs money both because he's running for president and the additional issues that you just nodded to, such as this judgment that he needs to settle. These shares are under a lockup for about six months after they begin trading. So he can't do that right away. Now, there's a wrinkle here though because you could get a waiver from the company leadership to sell your shares sooner than that. And since this company is run by supporters of the president, it's quite possible to be open to that sort of thing. But even then things get complicated because selling that big of a stake of a stock without affecting the price is very hard to do and you have to be able to keep the price where it is to be able to monetize that stake at the price you have in mind. And what about Truth Social as a business, it hasn't done so great as a company. What is the outlook? It's not looking great. Their latest securities filing said they did about 3.4 million in revenue in the first nine months of 2023, which is the most recent data we have. Operating losses were about 10 million. And then when you add in interest expense, the net loss was about $49 million over that period. So maybe this episode gives the stock a little more publicity. It's hard to build a startup in a world with big competitors like Facebook and X, formerly known as Twitter and other social networks as well. It's a crowded environment and a tough business to break into. And so the question is, where does Truth Social fit into that landscape, and so far it's been a struggle. Wall Street Journal Markets Reporter Charley Grant. Apple is working to widen its artificial intelligence capabilities. As part of that, we report exclusively that the tech giants held preliminary talks with Chinese company Baidu about using its generative AI in Apple devices in China. Reporter Aaron Tilley says Apple's been talking with a range of companies, including Google and OpenAI as it builds out its own tools. Apple's AI work and its AI research is challenged in some ways. It's very privacy and device centric, so it's not sending a lot to the cloud, which really limits the size of the AI models they can build. And the kind of data that they can collect is quite limited too, which also limits the size and the scope of their models they're able to build. So as they try to catch up in this race for generative AI, they're building it in-house, but they're also looking at what's out there in the world and how they could potentially incorporate an external AI system to power some of their products because they're really looking to bring generative AI to basically all their software. Working with Baidu could also help Apple navigate regulatory hurdles in China. People familiar with the matter say Apple's been looking for a local partner there, mainly because China requires generative AI models to be vetted by its cyberspace regulator. Chrysler's parent company, Stellantis is laying off about 400 employees in the US, mostly in its software and engineering divisions. That's according to internal documents viewed by The Wall Street Journal. Stellantis confirmed in a statement that it plans to reduce its engineering technology and software organizations in the US by about 2%. It's the third round of white collar job cuts Stellantis has made in the past year. In 2023, it offered buyouts to around 9,000 salaried US workers. Car companies have been trying to reign in costs during a bumpy transition to making more electric vehicles. And if you're looking to book a trip anytime soon, you may want to consider who you and your bag are flying with. Most major US carriers did a better job of handling your checked luggage in 2023 than they did in 2022. That's according to data from the Transportation Department, which keeps track of those lost, delayed or damaged bags. But things got worse at United. The airline blamed bad weather last summer for its issues, still it outperformed American, which for years has brought up the rear. Among nine major US carriers Allegiant performed the best. And finally, if you're in a book club that meets online, you've probably met your club mates in real life at some point. But some book clubs these days work the other way around. Our Social Media Reporter Alexa Corse joined an online book club and wrote about her experience. You could call it the new book clubs you meet online, but then you party in person once you get to know the people and then deciding, "Okay, let's become real life friends." There's a shared interest there. It's an easy conversation starter. If you know you like the same beach reads and you've read about them, that makes it a lot less scary to go than meet up with a bunch of strangers in person because you'll have that to talk about. And obviously this is the promise of the internet from the beginning, but social media hasn't always led to great things. So it was really nice to take a chance to write about social media actually bringing people together in a meaningful way. My book club came together through real life and the internet. I posted online during the height of the pandemic to see who'd be interested in meeting virtually. This was back when we were all still in quarantine. The original members were all people I knew in real life, but they also recruited their own friends and everyone got to meet someone new. Still, not everyone has met in real life yet, even though we're hopeful about going hybrid. And a final note, an earlier version of yesterday's PM edition incorrectly referred to Dartmouth College as Dartmouth University. And that's what's news for this week. Today's show was produced by Pierre Bienaimé and Anthony Bansie. What's News is hosted by me, Annmarie Fertoli and Luke Vargas. Additional support this week from Tali Arbel. Michael LaValle wrote our theme music. Additional audio in this episode, courtesy of BBC studios. Our supervising producers are Sandra Kilhof and Michael Kosmides. Aisha Al-Muslim is our development producer. Scott Saloway and Chris Zinsli are our deputy editors. And Philana Patterson is The Wall Street Journal's head of news audio. Tomorrow you can look out for our weekly markets wrap up, What's News in markets. And on Sunday we'll be answering your questions about what's keeping food prices so sticky and how you can shop and eat smarter in What's News Sunday. We'll be back with our regular show on Monday morning. Thanks for listening.