The State of New York could move to seize Donald Trump's assets today, as the former president runs out of time to dodge a $454 million penalty. Plus, Russia reckons with one of its deadliest terror attacks in decades. What this does is put anti-terrorism efforts right, back, front and center in terms of what not just Russia has to be thinking about, but Europe as well. And CEO pay rides the stock market wave. It's Monday, March 25th. I'm Luke Vargas for The Wall Street Journal, and here is the am edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. Former president Donald Trump has failed to come up with the $454 million needed to cover a judgment against him in a New York civil fraud case. And with his grace period running out today, the state could now move to seize his assets. Trump failed to get a court to put the penalty on pause while he continues to challenge the ruling, and his legal team has said that securing a bond to cover it was "virtually impossible." State Attorney General Letitia James, who originally brought the fraud case, has already laid some of the groundwork to seize some of Trump's assets, registering a judgment in Westchester County, the location of one of Trump's properties. Such moves could put in jeopardy the marquee buildings and golf courses on which Trump built his reputation. Though James could also seek to seize Trump's accounts at financial institutions. Well, in case you missed it, the US managed to avoid a government shutdown over the weekend after the Senate approved a $1.2 trillion funding package that President Biden was quick to sign into law. After months of congressional drama, leaders in both parties described scoring wins in negotiations with Democrats saying they had fended off cuts to education, labor, and health programs, while Republicans said they had successfully reduced spending on foreign aid and nonprofit groups that helped migrants as well as clawing back funding from the IRS. However, the bipartisan coalition that speaker, Mike Johnson, relied on to push the spending package over the finish line could soon face a fresh test with the House expected to take on long stalled legislation to fund Ukraine and Israel that enjoys broad support on both sides of the aisle, but which many Republicans staunchly oppose. Meanwhile, senior Israeli officials are due to visit Washington in the coming days to present their plans for continuing the fight against Hamas in Gaza. The Biden Administration is hoping to persuade the delegation to avoid a full ground invasion of the crowded border City of Rafah. However, prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appears set on the idea and has said that Israel would press ahead with or without US support. Correspondent, Dov Lieber, in Tel Aviv has the latestDov Lieber: With Israeli Defense Minister, Yoav Gallant, in Washington this week. What we need to look out for is whether there'll be some kind of proposal from the American side that the Israelis will find suitable for their needs in Rafah. There are thousands of militants in Rafah that Israel wants to arrest, kill, or capture, and at the same time, it wants to have some kind of control over the border between the Sinai Peninsula and the Gaza Strip. And the Israelis think that they need a very large operation to get it done. The Americans are looking for something a little more tactical, and it's a major question whether this can be bridged between them. Russia is continuing to mourn the deaths of over 130 people who were killed Friday at a concert hall near Moscow in the deadliest episode of terrorism in the country in decades. The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the assault and assessment backed up by the United States. But within Russia, the official line is more complicated as President Vladimir Putin seeks to connect the attack to Ukraine. Journal correspondent, Thomas Grove, has been monitoring the response to Friday's attack. Thomas, bring us up to speed. What do we know about what occurred on Friday several days on now? The attack started out with gunmen entering the foyer of the Crocus City Hall and shooting straight into the crowd really. A fire was unleashed from various smoke bombs and lighter fluid, and the place went up like a match, unfortunately. The very night of the attack, there were four suspects who were caught in Bryansk region which abuts Belarus and Ukraine. So now we are four days later, rescue teams are still sifting through the rubble. Looking for the bodies now of people who are maybe under there. In terms of who was responsible for this, Thomas, what has Russia had to say? I think Russia is not entirely clear as to how to present this attack. First and foremost, it was warned almost two weeks in advance about this attack by the United States, and it was publicly dismissed by Vladimir Putin the very week of the attack. And so this obviously points to major security blunders on the part of the Russian authorities. So the day after the attack, Putin came out on state television and said that this was an attack that was perhaps not orchestrated by... He didn't blame Ukraine directly, but he said that there was preliminary evidence that said that Ukraine was giving the attackers room to enter into Ukraine. We should note, Thomas, that Putin offered no evidence to back up that assertion and Ukraine has denied any involvement in the attack. Western governments, meanwhile, have also rejected those accusations, calling them malicious propaganda. Turning to the Islamic State here though, they have claimed responsibility for the attack, a claim backed up by the US, which has pinned the blame on a branch of the group based in Afghanistan known as ISI-K. What significance would that have? Why would they be targeting Russia? ISIS-K is an interesting organization in the sense that it conflates a lot of the regional animus towards Russia in one group. You have people that came into ISIS from Chechnya, from the North Caucasus, which had a long-running conflict with Russia on its own territory. You have central Asians that feel as though Moscow has been this overlord in the region as the root of all evil. And then you have just other Islamist groups as well that feel as though Russia as a Christian orthodox country that believes in traditional values and Putin makes no secret of his religiosity. And Moscow is just as much of a target as Germany is or the United States would be or other countries seen as Christian and Western. For a broader audience outside of Russia, does this also mean we should now be paying more attention to the Islamic state? They were highly in focus several years ago, but it sort of slipped off the radar a little bit. I think with the rise of Russia and China, a lot of our security positioning has been focused on great power competition. And so I think what this does is put anti-terrorism efforts right back front and center in terms of what, not just Russia has to be thinking about, but Europe as well. ISIS-K was also trying to launch attacks in Germany, for example. So it's not just Russia that's in the crosshairs here, it's broadly the west. Yeah. We have previously reported Thomas that European security agencies have thwarted several plots by Islamic state in recent months. It just begs the question, what should we be watching for next, Thomas, both within Russia and more broadly? Well, I think first and foremost, we have to think about Paris and the Olympics coming up. And this is a huge event and a lot of attention is going to be paid to it, not just by media organizations like ourselves, but also organizations like ISIS-K. And inside Russia, this attack has echoes of previous attacks that we've seen in the late 1990s and throughout the 2000s. Those attacks strengthened Putin's hand and we saw a subsequent crackdown on society following them. I think what we could see this time around is something very similar, possibly another crackdown on the few remnants of civil society and civic liberties that Russians still have. And on top of it, if Russia tries to link this more tightly with Ukraine, it wouldn't be difficult to see another mass mobilization or further moves that could try to strengthen Russia's position on the battlefield. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal correspondent, Thomas Grove. Thomas, thank you so much for the update. Sure, thank you. Coming up, CEOs cash in after last year's stock market rally and we've got a bitter update on commodity prices. That's after the break. Last year, chipmaker, Broadcom, awarded its Chief Executive Hock Tan with a $161 million stock award, instantly landing him among the highest paid CEOs. But now that award could swell to $1.3 billion thanks to a surge in the company's share price. The gains are revealed, thanks to new rules requiring companies to disclose how much executives equity awards changed in value during the year. And WSJ Europe finance reporter, Patricia Kowsmann, said tan is not an exception among CEOs in seeing a surge in the value of their pay packages. If you remember last year, the stock market did really well. So the S&P 500 index, for example, it gained 24%. And if you think about the biggest gainers, there are a lot of technology companies. Overall, an analysis that the Journal did found that pay for the top executives at 187 S&P 500 companies race towards a new high year rebounding from a bit of a sluggish growth in 2022 because the stock markets didn't do very well. And we'll have a lot more on executive compensation later in the spring when the journal publishes a full ranking of S&P 500 CEO pay. And while we're all used to CEOs getting paid, what about college athletes? The March Madness Basketball Tournament is in high gear, and increasingly so too is a unionization push in college athletics led by students at Dartmouth. And we want to know what questions you have about how that could reshape everything from the future of American higher education to professional sports. So send us a note or even better record a voice memo on your phone and send that to us at WNpod@wsj.com. That's WNpod@wsj.com. Or leave us a voicemail at 212-416-4328. Just be sure to include your name and location because we might use it on the show. And finally, your sweet tooth might start costing you more than usual as the price of cocoa reaches new records. Chocolate's main ingredient has gotten more expensive, thanks to extreme weather with the El Nino phenomenon, bringing unusually wet conditions and strong winds to West Africa that combined to cause severe crop shortages. Cocoa prices ended last week, a whopping 42% above the previous record set in 1977, and our commodities reporter, Ryan Dezember, has more. Demand is still rising. While this year's crop is so much lower, which is going to eat into the world supplies, companies that make chocolate or use a lot of chocolate in their recipes, they're going to probably have to manage through this with higher prices. Big companies, Hershey's, Mondelez, they're all telling their investors this is going to be a problem for us going forward, and could it eat into profits a little bit. The companies that really rely on chocolate, stock market analysts are saying, watch out for their shares because they're going to be needing to raise prices and continue what we call shrinkflation. And that's What's News for Monday morning. Today's show was produced by Hattie Moir and Kate Bullivant. Cristina Roca was our supervising producer. And I'm Luke Vargas for The Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. And until then, thanks for listening. Donald Trump can post a smaller bond, $175 million in a New York civil fraud case. And, US teacher salaries have stayed flat for decades and many are leaving the field. A lot of other professionals, nurses, architects, lawyers, of course engineers, accountants, college professors, are all better paid, have better salaries at least than teachers, and so teachers feel frustrated by that. Plus, Boeing's CEO is stepping down as part of a broader executive shakeup. It's Monday, March 25th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. Over the past few weeks, we've been covering the fallout at Boeing after a January mid-air blowout on a 737 MAX jet and ongoing production problems at the plane maker. Today, CEO Dave Calhoun announced he's stepping down at the end of the year. Calhoun had been planning to step aside, but frustration from airlines and regulators sped up his announcement and led to a broader executive shakeup. Boeing's commercial aircraft business head will step aside immediately and the company's chairman won't stand for reelection. Steve Mollenkopf, a former CEO of Qualcomm will take over as board chair and lead the search for the next Boeing boss. According to people familiar with the matter, Boeing's board met over the weekend and decided to address the company's leadership plans ahead of a meeting requested by a group of airline CEOs. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal Heard on the Street columnist Jon Sindreu. Welcome back, Jon. Hello. Calhoun came aboard at Boeing during another crisis and he had promised to turn the company around. So what went wrong here? What were Calhoun and the other leaders involved in this shakeup not able to accomplish? It's been a long time coming that this more shareholder centric value culture has permeated Boeing. People talk about it starting in the late '90s. It was hard for him to manage to do this quickly without angering people, but I would say that maybe the issue is that he didn't go far enough. Boeing has always tried to tinker at the edges, first by not immediately replacing the previous CEO. Then by having Caloun come on board. We have to remember that Caloun himself is an insider, that he'd been at the company at the board since 2009. So Boeing didn't do a clean break. That's just the reality of it. Many of us thought maybe they didn't need to. Maybe they could just fix the current problem, it would be enough, but it seems like this culture of bad quality control and bad execution even on some good ideas that they have is just everywhere and they try and do a little bit, but it keeps blowing up at other places. As Boeing searches for new leadership now, what does the company need to do to satisfy critics and investors? It's a good question, because again, these are difficult things to do and we saw when Dave Caloun said, "Well, if there's any issues, we'll stop reduction," right? What we see with that is that of course, airlines and lessors, they're not very happy when that happens. So there is this trade off between, "No, we will get quality control back in check." But also doing that might also anger people. So it's one of those difficult things. And I think ultimately what they need is this notion of credibility, this notion that the new Boeing really is happening and that things are looking up rather than there will be another big scandal around the corner. And it's very hard to know who can do that. My impression is that though the instinct of these companies is often to go to an insider, and we have this possibility here as well, if you get someone from the outside that can really communicate the message that things are changing and that he will go as far as necessary, maybe that will give the new boss the necessary room to sometimes anger someone but say, "No, we're doing this for good reason. And you will see how when I'm done here, all of these problems, they will be a thing of the past." That's Wall Street Journal Heard on the Street columnist Jon Sindreu. A New York appellate court has ruled that Donald Trump needs to pay just $175 million to put his $454 million civil fraud judgment on hold during his appeal. While Trump only needs to pay a fraction of the civil judgment for now, he could still be on the hook for the full amount if he loses the appeal. The last minute reprieve came on the day New York's Attorney General Letitia James could start enforcing the judgment. Trump's legal team had said it was virtually impossible to secure a bond to cover the entire amount. Trump now has 10 days to post a bond or pay cash to cover the 175 million. Meanwhile, a New York judge has said an April 15th trial date in a separate criminal case against Trump on charges of falsifying business records to cover up a hush money payment to porn star Stormy Daniels on the eve of the 2016 election. Trump has denied wrongdoing. Where in the midst of basketball's March Madness. And this year it comes as there's a new push focusing on unionization in sports, most recently at Dartmouth. There's a lot of opinions on all sides of this debate. And we'd like to hear from you, our listeners. What questions do you have about the unionization push? And what it means for colleges, athletes, and sports overall. Send us a note. Or even better, record a voice memo on your phone and send it to wnpod@wsj.com. That's wnpod@wsj.com. You can also leave us a voicemail at 212-416-4327. Just be sure to include your name and location because we might use it on the show. Thanks for sharing your thoughts and questions. Coming up, US teacher pay hasn't increased in three decades. How new legislation could change that, after the break. Many people, including politicians, have been advocating for higher wages for teachers. President Biden even mentioned it during his State of the Union address earlier this month. But the reality is, teacher pay has stalled for three decades. It's about the same, adjusted for inflation of course as it was back in 1990, about $66,400. Even though states are putting more money into public schools, the funding has gone toward more staff, rising healthcare costs, and pensions, not teacher salaries. Now, some states are looking at making pay raises mandatory. Joining me now with more is Wall Street Journal K-12 education reporter Matt Barnum. Welcome to What's News, Matt. Thanks for having me. Matt, teacher pay has stayed flat for decades. How is that playing out in classrooms across the country right now? Well, we would worry that flat pay is going to make it harder to recruit and retain teachers. Now, there's a question of how strong the evidence is for that, but economic theory would predict when other college educated professions are more attractive and pay is going up there, that more teachers are going to be leaving the classroom and fewer people are going to be entering teaching. And that's exactly what we see. We've seen in the last couple of years a pretty significant spike in the number of people leaving teaching. Now, I should say that's only the last couple of years and this pay trend has been going on for decades as we've discussed. So it's not clear if that's what's driving it, but we do see more teachers leaving. And we have seen a longer term decrease in the number of people wanting to become teachers, and some of that could be due to stagnant pay. And what about the argument on the other side that investing in these other aspects support staff is a better way to spend the money? That's a credible argument. And actually, I heard that from some teachers. Some teachers said, "You know what? My job is easier and my students' lives are better and my school is better functioning when I have more staff, when my class sizes are smaller." So it's not obvious that it's a bad trade-off to say we're putting more money into additional staff rather than paying existing staff more. The researchers I talked to as well said there isn't a clear research evidence on that question one way or another. So Matt, how are states now looking at fixing this? We have some that are now considering these pay mandates. Do they have any traction? We see, but a handful of states saying, "You know what? We are going to mandate a higher starting salary." And how big of an effect that's going to have depends on where the starting salary was previously. But we do know at least one state, Arkansas, they set a salary minimum of $50,000, which is very high, especially in rural parts of Arkansas for first year teachers. Most states it doesn't seem like they're going that drastically, and some states are still just debating this. But that's something that states are considering to sort of force the issue. What about on the national level? Is there anything to be done there? President Biden very briefly mentioned it, but he hasn't laid out a particular plan to do so. And we have a divided government, and so there's very little chance in the short term that something's going to happen. There has been a bill proposed by Democratic Congress members to raise a minimum starting salary to $60,000, and that would be a really big deal in certain parts of the country, but at least for now, that appears to be a real long shot. There's a lot of resistance in some quarters of the federal government stepping in here because education has historically been a state and local driven issue. This is so interesting to me because I know a lot of teachers and they were struggling a lot during the height of the pandemic. And a lot of folks left their profession. On the flip side, you also have people like those you spoke to who say, "We're not quite in it for the money. This is for love of the job." And I wonder how that's breaking down and how that fits into the debate over where to spend funding on schools. Different teachers have different ideas, but I think teachers really do feel like, "I knew that this was what I was getting paid. I knew I wasn't going to get rich being a teacher. I knew I was maybe getting in it for better benefits, for better job security, for the love of teaching and for wanting to do good." And at the same time, they feel like, "I'm really not well paid for how hard I'm working." I story notes a lot of other professionals, nurses, architects, lawyers, of course engineers, accountants, college professors, are all better paid, have better salaries at least than teachers, and so teachers feel frustrated by that. What you might see is a bigger impact on the salary piece of people who are considering becoming teachers. If you're already in the profession, it's harder to leave, it's harder to start a new career. But the people who are considering the profession, they have all the options available to them, and so pay could make a particular difference in whether you're deciding to become a teacher or not. That's Wall Street Journal K-12 education reporter Matt Barnum. The US and the UK are condemning China's growing aggression in cyberspace. Today, the Biden administration hit alleged Chinese hackers with sanctions and criminal charges. The British government meanwhile accused Beijing of hacking the UK's electoral register to steal the personal details of tens of millions of voters. The combined actions are the latest by Western governments to put pressure on Chinese leader Xi Jinping over what the West sees as a global hacking operation. Officials have attributed that campaign to Chinese intelligence agencies. Israeli officials have canceled high level meetings with the Biden administration in Washington. The decision comes after the UN Security Council approved a resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza. The US abstained rather than vetoing the resolution, angering Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's government. US abstention allowed the UN Security Council to pass a resolution calling for a ceasefire for the first time since the war began last October. Israel has opposed the demand unless it is explicitly linked to the release of hostages taken by Hamas. The European Union has launched investigations into Apple. Meta, and Google parent, Alphabet, under its sweeping new digital competition law. As we've been reporting, the EU's Digital Markets Act took effect earlier this month. It requires some of the world's biggest tech companies to comply with new rules aimed at increasing competition and digital advertising, search and apps. The investigations announced today are the first under this new law. If the companies are found to be in violation of the rules, they could be fined as much as 10% of their worldwide revenue. All three tech companies said they'd engaged with EU officials on the new rules. Apple said it's confident its plan complies with the new law. Google said it would continue to defend its approach and that it had made significant changes to the way its services operate in Europe. Meta said offering subscriptions as an alternative to ads is a well established business model in many industries. And that's What's News for this Monday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Anthony Bansie with supervising producer Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning.