 Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. The US begins aid air drops over Gaza as the White House ramps up calls for a ceasefire. Plus, could pilotless planes be the future for the US Air Force? Software has created new missions and things that would not be done with piloted aircraft just because it would be too dangerous or frankly break the laws of physics as Scorri would say on Star Trek. And a new journal poll shows Donald Trump remains in a stronger position than President Biden in a likely rematch. It's Monday, March 4th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal and here is the AM edition of What's News, the Top Headlines and Business Stories Moving Your World. Today. We begin in Gaza, where the US began air-dropping humanitarian aid over the weekend, following similar deliveries by Egypt, Jordan and Qatar in recent days. The steps are intended to address an increasingly pressing humanitarian disaster in the Gaza strip, almost five months into the war between Israel and Hamas. Meanwhile, negotiators meeting in Cairo to secure a Gaza truce before the Muslim holy month of Ramadan appear to have hit a roadblock. We are reporting that Israel has agreed to the outlines of a deal, but that Israeli officials are uncertain about Hamas's sincerity to reach an agreement after failing to provide a list of living hostages and their conditions, a demand that mediators say Israel made over the weekend. Speaking yesterday, Vice President Kamala Harris called for an immediate ceasefire. Hamas claims it wants a ceasefire. Well, there is a deal on the tape. And as we have said, Hamas needs to agree to that deal. Let's get a ceasefire. Let's reunite the hostages with their families. And let's provide immediate relief to the people of Gaza. Harris also issued one of the sharpest US rebukes of Israel's bombardment of Gaza, describing conditions there as a humanitarian catastrophe and calling on Israel to significantly increase the flow of aid without excuses. Those comments come as a new journal poll finds US sympathy for Palestinians is growing as the war drags on with a plurality of American voters now saying that Israel has gone too far in responding to the October attacks by Hamas. One in three voters in the new survey also said the US was doing too little to help Palestinians a seven point uptick from December. And we'll have more results from that poll of American voters later in the show. Over to the Republican presidential race now as Nikki Haley has won her first GOP primary in the district of Columbia. That said caucuses in Idaho and Missouri over the weekend saw former President Donald Trump notch a further two wins ahead of Super Tuesday. Among the 15 states casting votes tomorrow is Colorado, which is awaiting a Supreme Court decision as early as today about whether Trump can be removed from the ballot. The Colorado Supreme Court has ruled that the 14th amendment means Trump is disqualified from holding public office again for engaging in insurrection against the US. Trump's legal team has appealed that decision to the Supreme Court, arguing that the former President never participated in or directed any of the illegal conduct that occurred at the Capitol on January 6, 2021. If the Supreme Court rejects Trump's appeal, he could be stripped from the ballot across the country. Japan's Nique has smashed through 40,000 for the first time with the country's benchmark stock index closing half a percent higher today. The rally follows the index hitting an all-time high on February 22, led by a surge in chip stocks. Japanese chipmakers saw gains on Monday mirroring a similarly for chip makers in South Korea. So far this year at the Nique has climbed 20 percent driven by the return of modest inflation, improvements in corporate governance, and a weaker yen. Well, one thing that may push markets to further records is the trajectory of the US economy and not least when the Fed will begin cutting interest rates. This week's jobs report could also be instrumental with the labor market expected to have heated up even further. However, the chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, Lizanne Saunders, told WSJ's Take On The Week podcast that there are some hidden weaknesses in the labor market that could take investors by surprise. The January job report was for the most part positive across most metrics other than another decline in household employment. Now the prior report, even though on the surface it looked okay, the details under the surface were much more negative, including for that December report a huge plunge in household employment. A lot of people might just focus on the headline metrics and not look further from that. There's another survey they conduct which is the household survey and from the household survey the unemployment rate is calculated. And there are times like the last couple of months where you can see pretty meaningful divergence in the case of two months ago, which is a huge huge almost 700 interesting in household employment. And you can hear more from that interview with Lizanne Saunders on the latest episode of WSJ's Take On The Week. The investor group looking to buy beleaguered department store Macy's has increased its offer by nearly a billion dollars. After rejecting a prior proposal of 21 dollars a share back in December, a bid that Macy said failed to provide compelling value to shareholders, real estate investment firm Arcaus Management and Global Asset Manager Brigade Capital Management are now offering $24 per share. Both investors have said they're open to increasing their bid further, but the lack of due diligence and a non-disclosure agreement has so far led Macy's to express doubts about any potential deal. Coming up, a journal poll finds that American voters are shedding some of their pessimism about the state of the economy, but whether they're crediting President Biden for that is another story. We'll crunch the numbers after the break. Hey what's news fans, listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show Ad Free on Amazon Music included with your Prime Membership? That's right, all your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music Ad Free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown, Ad Free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most ad free top podcasts, so we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your Prime Membership. To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free or visit amazon.com-slash-what's-news. That's amazon.com-slash-what's-news. It's just that easy. In the thick of the campaign for the GOP nomination for President and closing in on eight months to go until the general election, a new Wall Street Journal poll has just dropped that shows Donald Trump is in a stronger position than President Biden in a likely rematch. It is a similar result as a prior survey in December, but dig a little deeper beneath the surface and voter sentiment is changing in ways that could define the campaign to come. Editor Aaron Zidner oversees the journal's polling efforts. Aaron, tell us about the foremost issues that voters see defining the race to come. Well, one of the main questions we've had is whether an improving economy would lift the fortunes of President Biden. The economy is getting stronger. All the metrics show it unemployment has been very low. Inflation has moderated. And yet, President Biden is still in a very weak position. Well, in this poll, we find something interesting. Voter reviews of the economy are starting to improve. The share of people who see the economy is doing better than before and is up 10 points. The share to say their own personal findings are doing better is up nine points. So those are comparisons with December. So people are seeing some effect in their own personal lives of an improving economy. And there is some marginal improvement in their views of how President Biden is handling the economy. But you know, it's just not that much improvement. The president is still in a very weak position. The corrosive effects of inflation are still on people's minds. And so we're getting some clues that yes, maybe arising the economy can help the President, but so far not so much. Aaron, I could imagine the White House responding to that saying, all right, we'll just give it six more months. Maybe we'll start to see the Fed cutting interest rates and come election day. This is a stronger issue for us. And yet, I note in the survey that the economy is no longer issue number one for voters. Well, that's exactly the conundrum. This poll is one of the rare cases where something other than the economy is what voters say is most important to their vote. More people by significant numbers say immigration is the top issue on their minds, not the economy. And that's bad news for the President right now because he really gets low marks. And I think it's fair to say failing marks on immigration. 71% of people say that developments in immigration and border security are headed in the wrong direction, not the right direction. And 65% disapproves of the President's handling of immigration. That tells us that it's not just Republicans who are worried about immigration, it's independence and some of them are crats. Aaron, a few other things that jumped out to me from this poll. You've got about the same number of people as late last year that think Biden is too old to run for office. Though the number who think that Trump is too old has gone up by five points. Another thing is that while voters don't seem all that pleased with how Biden is handling immigration or the economy, they don't seem all that happy either with some of Trump's foremost policy proposals, including on health care and forum policy. And then there's the issue that this might not just be a Biden Trump rematch that there could be other candidates on the ballot. Tell us more about what the poll showed in that respect. Well, when you test Trump versus Biden and then you run a ballot that has a green party candidate, a libertarian candidate, an independent migrant and a grubbered candidate and Cornell West. In just about every case Biden bleeds more of his support to those other candidates than Trump does. So in this poll, a two point lead that Trump holds when it's just Trump and Biden on the ballot becomes a five point lead. But and there are two significant bucks here. These candidates, they don't have ballot access in all the states yet. The other caveat is that Robert F. Kennedy, who is the non major party candidate who gets the most support, he gets nine percentage points support in this poll when he's on the ballot with other candidates. There's a chance that he takes more votes away from Trump than from Biden. More of his supporters is they're given only a choice of Trump or Biden. Big Trump over Biden, which suggests that this he's on a ballot. He alone, he could lead more support from Trump. Aaron, finally, the GOP primary fight is continuing. It's Super Tuesday tomorrow with 15 states voting. Does this poll reveal any vulnerabilities for Trump that could complicate his his path to the nomination potentially? I would say it's actually the opposite. The primaries so far have suggested a weakness for Trump that we don't see in this national poll. In these primaries, quite a few Republicans, especially those voting for Nikki Haley, have said they will not vote for Trump in those ever that if Trump is the nominee, even though they identify as Republicans, they would be so disappointed that they were not supporting in November. This is something we have written out of New Hampshire and South Carolina and Michigan that that Trump was having trouble holding his coalition together. That's not the true, but this poll finds that both parties have had trouble holding for coalitions together and that Biden has the greater problem. So while some Republicans don't want to vote for Trump in November, this national poll suggests that Biden has more work to do to unify his party than Trump does. I have been speaking to Wall Street Journal editor Aaron Zidner who oversees the journals polling efforts. Aaron, thank you so much. As always, great to be with you. And finally, could AI pilots be the future of the U.S. Air Force? As aircraft costs soar and flying software advances, the Air Force is turning its sights toward a new generation of pilot lists jets to bolster its fleet and to help deter China. Journal Aerospace and Defense reporter Duck Cameron has the details on these so-called mini jets roughly half the size of their conventional piloted counterparts. Because there's no pilots, that means that you take out the support systems for pilots, which makes them lighter. You can put fuel in there to fly longer distances, which is particularly important in the Western Pacific. And also, there should be cheaper. The Air Force is looking at something like a quarter or a third of an F-35, which gets you into a sort of 20 million dollar, a copy, price tag. The idea is that you can build more. They want a thousand and five years, which is both unprecedented in terms of a ramp in production, and also would give a very big boost just in terms of sheer numbers. Those numbers could help the U.S. match China's growing military industrial output, while Duck said that other tech advances could allow the mini jets to serve as communications hubs in the sky. The communication side is particularly important in the Western Pacific. Not just because of the distance, but because of concerns amongst military planners that jamming will stop GPS and satellite transmissions. This is where the big development of recent years comes in, and that's in terms of autonomous flying software. These planes can literally fly themselves. Yes, they can be controlled by cockpit or by controllers on the ground, but if communications are interrupted or stop altogether, they have the wherewithal to either make it to their targets or to carry out pre-plan maneuvers or indeed to return home. And that is What's News for Monday Morning. Today's episode was produced by Kate Bollivant and Hatty Moir. Our supervising producer is Sandra Killhoff and I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with the new show. And until then, thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music, Included with your Prime Membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.  Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. The Supreme Court restores Donald Trump's ballot eligibility. It really puts Tares this effort to get at Trump through the insurrection clause via state courts just last week, a state judge in Illinois, removed Trump from the ballot there. This is going to end that litigation as well. And higher food prices and labor costs are squeezing independent restaurants. Plus, JetBlue and Spirit Airlines call off their merger. It's Monday, March 4. I'm Ann Marie for Tolly for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that move the world today. The US Supreme Court has restored Donald Trump's ballot eligibility in Colorado, ruling that states lack the power to reject presidential candidates on the grounds that they engaged in a rebellion or insurrection against the US government. While the judgment was unanimous, four justices and separate opinions said the majority had gone too far in limiting ways to enforce the insurrection clause. In a statement, Trump called the ruling a quote big win for America. Let's jump into what the decision means with our Supreme Court correspondent Jess Breven. Welcome back Jess. Hi, I'm Marie. All right. So to start, what does this ruling say about states rights versus the authority of the federal government? Well, it says that states don't have any independent power to enforce the insurrection clause when it comes to federal candidates and federal elections. That means that they can for state officials, and in fact one state already has, but not for candidates for federal office or federal office holders. It also says that the authority for that enforcement belongs to Congress and Congress would need to pass some legislation explaining how you keep insurrectionists out of federal office under the terms of the 14th Amendment. So let's get into the other opinions regarding the insurrection clause because the Supreme Court didn't rule on the merits of that charge that President Trump was an insurrectionist, but they did have opinions on this clause. Can you explain what that's about? Court's in Colorado did find that he engaged in an insurrection, but the Supreme Court didn't address that issue one way or the other. All this case was about was what are the procedures for enforcing the constitutional bar on having people who engage in insurrection or rebellion take federal office? And the majority said, and that was a five-member majority, said that like some other provisions of the 14th Amendment, it needs to be addressed by congressional legislation. Before other justices all agreed on the basic point that you can't have a sort of patchwork system where each state is judging the eligibility of candidates on its own. So that that part they all agreed on the part where they disagreed was well, what about some other permutations of enforcing the insurrection clause? And one example that the three liberal justices led by Justice Sonia Sotomayor gave was what if you're being prosecuted by an insurrectionist? Could you bring up that as a defense in court and say, well, they have no right to prosecute me because they're not entitled to hold this office under the federal government? Justice Amy Coney Barrett writing only for herself agreed that the majority went too far and thought the opinion should be limited to presidential candidates. The majority opinion, which was unsigned, they use the term percurium by the whole court, said they didn't understand why the three liberals were all bent out of shape because they did agree on the key issues here on this question. And as you said before, it really puts to rest this effort to get at Trump through the insurrection clause via state courts just last week, a state judge in Illinois removed Trump from the ballot there. This is going to end that litigation as well. Just how does today's ruling impact the cases still pending against Donald Trump? You might think of today's case as really serve an appetizer for an all you can eat banquet of Trump related cases as the Supreme Court term continues over the coming months. This one was really in some ways an easy one pretty much everyone expected this outcome. The most important case still on the agenda involving Trump has to do whether he can be prosecuted for his alleged crimes related to January six and the effort to stop the transfer of power to present Biden after Trump lost the 2020 election. The Supreme Court is going to hear argument over that issue in April and we hope would have an answer by the end of June. And then there are still other Trump related cases there. There's one involving one of the charges that was filed against him. The case doesn't specifically involve him. He's not a party to it, but he will be affected by the outcome. And then there are even some ones that are maybe a bit more amusing. There's a trademark dispute over whether the term Trump too small can be trademarked for its use on shirts and souvenirs and so on. An anti-Trump guy in California wants to trademark that phrase and sell t-shirts so with it that phrase on it. So lots of Trump stuff left to go totally going to overshadow many of the other cases that are also important that the Supreme Court is going to hear this term. That's Wall Street Journal Supreme Court correspondent Jess Breven. JetBlue and Spirit Airlines have ended their $3.8 billion merger. The decision comes several weeks after a judge blocked the deal arguing the tie-up would hurt competition and lead to higher fares. The airlines appealed that January ruling, though some analysts said overturning it would likely be long shot. JetBlue and Spirit said they came to the decision that they probably couldn't overcome the legal and regulatory hurdles. The European Union has fined Apple about $2 billion, saying the company violated antitrust rules by restricting app developers from telling users about alternative ways to subscribe to music streaming services. Apple has also been ordered to change its practices. The fine is one of the EU's largest ever antitrust penalties and could lead to a wider battle between the block's regulators and the tech giant. Apple said it plans to appeal the decision and said the European Commission, which is the EU's executive body, failed to come up with credible evidence of consumer harm. The fine comes as the EU's new digital markets act is set to take effect this week. The ax aim is to make it easier for small arrivals to compete against big tech companies. Coming up with diners fed up with higher prices and labor cost rising, some independent restaurant owners say they're getting squeezed. More after the break. Last week, a federal judge in San Francisco acquitted Chinese state-owned company, Fujin, Genwa, integrated circuit of economic espionage and conspiracy. The case involved an incident nearly a decade ago. Employees at the Taiwan Factory of US chip maker Micron Technology abruptly left with hundreds of internal files for a rival company that was teaming up with Genwa. The ruling was a crushing defeat in a case the Justice Department had made the centerpiece of a year's long push dating to the Trump administration to protect domestic companies from Chinese efforts to steal American corporate secrets. Wall Street Journal senior reporter Arunavish Wenatha. What the FBI and the Justice Department do is investigate cases and prosecute cases. And so they wanted to try to use that as an avenue here and as another tool and a lever they could pull. And what this verdict shows is that one, sometimes they may have pursued cases where the facts were a little bit murky and they couldn't quite pin it on the Chinese company. And so when pursuing criminal cases, they usually have the ability to serve subpoenas on a lot of people that collect a lot of information and documents and emails. And here they don't have access to information from within China and they can't get information from the phones of people that might have been involved in China. They can't build the kind of case that they're used to making and when that's the case, their cases might not end up meeting the burden of proof that they need to prove that this happened in a US court. Micron declined to answer questions from the Wall Street Journal and the Chinese Embassy in Washington said China opposes American efforts to use the courts to curb Chinese technological and scientific progress. You can hear more about this story on tomorrow's tech news briefing podcast. Higher food prices are hitting everyone, but the skyrocketing costs driving food prices up are now pushing many independent restaurant owners out. They say they're also being squeezed by higher labor costs and backlash from diners who aren't happy about paying more for their sit down meals. Here now to explain is Wall Street Journal restaurant reporter Heather Haddon. Welcome back Heather. Thanks so much. Heather, I'm sure many of our listeners may know restaurants that didn't emerge from the pandemic. One of my favorite diners was among them. But for those that did it sounds like what was working before economically isn't working now. Why not? Yeah, a lot of these restaurant operators we spoke to just said the business model is broken basically that prior to the pandemic they had certain ratios for how much labor should cost, how much their goods, the food should cost and then would factor in pricing with that. The pandemic really shook up restaurants, you know, like you said many closed. But the ones that survived they've gone through a lot of tumult so they have had to pay a lot more for workers and some of that was because of supply. They're just wasn't the supply of workers like they had prior and then there's other things like minimum wage increases and other mandates that they're having to deal with. So labor has gone up astronomically for a lot of these restaurants and you know a lot of these restaurants are sit down establishments where they need workers to serve the food. They're just not fast food restaurants like a lot of chains are and a lot of these restaurants bumped up prices but they feel like they can't keep bumping them up because there's almost only so much customers are willing to take. You know you go to a diner and you expect kind of an affordable meal, not a not a fine dining price. Right, it might be challenging to sort of see these dynamics behind the scenes when you're looking at sort of eye popping price points on the menus but how are independent restaurant owners dealing with all of these challenges right now. Yes, so they're trying to be smart and savvy and a lot of the folks we talked to said they're really getting in the granular details of their food costs. So they're really trying to look at maybe an ice cream sundae that doesn't make sense to serve anymore because the machine costs so much to maintain like one North Carolina restaurant we talked to or maybe they need to alter like a Denver restaurant the appetizer plate so maybe you know they have to strip out some really expensive hand rolled grape leaves and substitute some big beans for that because it's just cheaper. Maybe they have to just kind of pair back some of the staffing at certain times that they might have typically had just because they can't have that other person on staff right now because it's expensive and Johnny Rogers is the restaurant you mentioned that got rid of its Sundays they also had to make some other really difficult choices. Yes, so that Johnny Rogers restaurant the labor cost her up about 25% since 2019 the owner told us but still other employees are struggling you know just because the hourly wages are going up doesn't mean that these workers can survive and the owners actually run a holiday code drive for two of his restaurants and some of those codes going to the children of the employees because even if you're making $17.35 an hour like. One of the workers were saying it's still challenging for them to survive. What is the broader economic impact if these independent restaurants continue to struggle in the way that they have been independent restaurants are a huge employer so when independent restaurant closes you're losing those jobs and that's really bad for communities you know it's also just another empty storefront which is not good for communities either their neighborhood gathering places places that people like to be in you know it feels good to go out to eat. Gather with friends in one of those places close it is a loss. That's Wall Street Journal restaurants reporter Heather had in. And finally Peppa Pig is a wildly popular English cartoon even among American kids now I don't really have a stake in this I only have to watch these kinds of shows when I'm visiting friends with little ones but the Peppa franchise which includes toys pajamas and theme parks made $1.7 billion in retail sales in 2022. And it was the fourth most in demand children series world wide last year according to entertainment consulting firm parrot analytics. It turns out some parents worry Peppa isn't setting the best example for their kids styles reporter Harvey Lieber wrote about the backlash. She basically embodies your typical four year old so she says whatever comes to mind she taunts her little brother George which is very classic for an older sibling. She kind of groans if her parents need to like stop for something on the way home and says oh this is so ball ring. And when I was talking to parents I found that the sort of younger age parents like millennials really had strong opinions against Peppa as opposed to let's say parents on the older range maybe in their 40s. The millennial parents that I spoke with just found Peppa to be really rude and abrasive and not a good role model for their children. And the difference for these millennial parents is that they expect more from a TV show when it comes to modeling behaviors. And of course we also heard from parents who appreciate Peppa fans say it's helpful for kids to learn that their feelings even the slightly mean ones are totally normal. And a senior executive at Hasbro which owns Peppa Pig said they see her not as too direct or rude but as self assertive and self confident. And that's what's news for this Monday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre Bianna May and Anthony Bansi with supervising producer Michael Cusmedi's. I'm Ann Marie for Tolly for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.