 Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. Donald Trump goes 14 of 15 in Republican primary contest last night and forces Nikki Haley out of the race. They call it Super Tuesday for a reason. This is a big one. Plus, investors await Fed-chair Jerome Powell's comments on the state of the U.S. economy as he heads to Capitol Hill. And why Ukraine is taking its fight against Russia all the way to Sudan. It's Wednesday, March 6. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal, and here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. And we begin with a Wall Street Journal exclusive, as we've learned that former South Carolina governor Nikki Haley is dropping out of the Republican primary race. This comes just hours after Super Tuesday handed hundreds of delegates to Haley's rival, former president Donald Trump, who won all of the night's GOP contests except for Vermont. And joining me now with more is Wall Street Journal politics editor Ben Pershing. Ben Tellus, what do we know at this hour? So later this morning we expect Nikki Haley will suspend her presidential campaign. She'll do it in remarks in her home state of South Carolina. People familiar with her plans tell us. And most importantly, I think she won't immediately endorse Donald Trump for the nomination. She's going to say that she wants Donald Trump to try to win the support of her supporters. And then I think down the line she'll make a decision about whether she actually wants to go ahead and back in. Ben, you have covered primary fights before. Is this setting up some sort of potential reconciliation? Maybe something that could happen at the Republican convention this summer? It's a good question. You know, back in 2016, Ted Cruz famously didn't endorse Trump. And at the convention kind of dramatically said, oh, you should vote your conscience. It was a big, a big split that you don't see almost always people who lose and these primaries end up endorsing the nominee. And it's pretty notable that Haley's holding back on that. And I think it's a good indication of just how raw this race got at the end. Yeah, was that her motivation Ben for getting out of the race to avoid widening any fissures within the party? Or was this, I don't know, out of necessity, a lack of resources? Do we have a sense? There wasn't any path for her to keep going forward. You know, her team was really watching the Super Tuesday results to see if there were any glimmers of hope places where she overperformed a path forward. And she only won one state and she came pretty short everywhere else. And she had some money. But there was just no sign that it was going to get any better for her next week or the week after. Trump was going to lock up the nomination, whatever she did. I think it made sense for her at this point to just decide to bow out. Ben, you mentioned earlier this race getting kind of raw near the end. And Haley's speeches did get increasingly heated in recent weeks where any bridges burned here in the final stretch of the primary for her early on in the race. You saw her try to take a balanced approach and maybe not alienate Trump supporters because she knows that's a big chunk of the party. And later on in the race, she really got emboldened to say, look, this guy can't win. I can be Biden and he can't his legal problems are a huge burden on the party. And we all have to be sort of honest about it upfront. And she kind of relished the role of being like a truth teller in the party. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal politics editor Ben Pershing. Ben, thank you so much. Thanks for having me. Let's turn back now to the super Tuesday results and Donald Trump's near sweep in 15 different contests last night. Molly ball is the journal's senior political correspondent. She's been stand up tonight looking at results coming in from all over the country. Molly, the main storyline here has got to be Trump's success pretty much across the board now in a position to look past this primary fight. Trump's victory speech was quite significant because we really did hear him pivot toward the general election start to make that general election argument really lay the groundwork for the campaign that lies ahead against Joe Biden. We heard him focus on the issues focus on the economy focus primarily on immigration. We know those are the issues that are on top of voters minds and issues on which voters broadly trust Donald Trump more than they trust Joe Biden. We heard him talk about unity both in terms of unifying the Republican party, although he did not mention Nikki Haley or really even allude to their being any competition within the party. And then also talking about unifying the country as he claimed was the case when he was president. The polls would suggest otherwise his tenure as president was quite divisive, but he's talking about something that a lot of voters are yearning for in terms of bringing the country together. And we can expect to hear him make that argument as he campaigns against Joe Biden. So with this speech and with Joe Biden state of the union speech on Thursday, it's really this week represents the moment when I think both candidates are pivoting toward the general election and starting to make that case to the electorate as they look toward November. Turning to the other side of the aisle here, one thing we've been looking at coming out of Michigan's democratic primary last month was whether president Biden's vote share was suffering at all. If there are any signs we could spot of internal frustration among Democrats around his handling in particular of the Israel Gaza war did that show up at all last night. It showed up a little bit. You know, not every state offers this uncommitted option in the ones that did it was a pretty small share of the vote with the exception of Minnesota where it looks like Biden may have lost as much as 20% of the vote to that uncommitted option. That is a state somewhat similar to Michigan, obviously geographically and demographically. And Michigan, there was a quite organized campaign on the part of Arab American voters to get people to vote uncommitted as a protest vote against Biden specifically in protest of his Israel policies. That may have reared its head as well in Minnesota, but we don't see broadly across the board that Biden is facing significant dissent from within his party rather ironically given that we see in polls that many Democrats wish he weren't the nominee. We still do not see a large chunk of his party either gravitating toward another option such as the Minnesota Congressman Jean Phillips or coming out to make that protest vote against him. And Molly, let's quickly type a few other loose ends from the night, both the House and Senate back in DC are hanging in the balance and there were a number of races around the country that those watching Congress closely had their eye on last night. Take us through any of the highlights that jumped out to you. Well, the big game here is the California Senate primary where we've been watching to see whether the front runner Democrat Adam Schiff, who is a congressman from Southern California, whether his competition in the general election would be a fellow Democrat or Republican. California has a so called jungle primary where the top two vocators, regardless of party advanced to the general election. And there were a couple of other well known House Democrats competing with Schiff, but a late surge by a Republican candidate, Steve Garvey, a former star baseball player for the LA Dodgers. He made a late surge into contention thanks in part to a lot of help from Adam Schiff's campaign. And that was a successful gambit shift will now face the Republicans, Steve Garvey in November that I think will lead Democrats to breathe a sigh of relief because it means that in such a solidly blue status California. Schiff is the overwhelming favorite against a Republican and likely won't have to spend a lot of money freeing up those donors to spend on other races. The one concern, I think, for Democrats is that may mean that there are less coattails for shift down ballot. California also has a number of competitive house races. Most of those are still out as of early Wednesday morning. We don't know exactly how they're going to shake out in terms of the candidates emerging from the primary. That was Wall Street Journal senior political correspondent Molly Ball. Molly, thanks. Thank you. Coming up, Ukraine is now fighting Russia in Sudan in a bid to cut off Moscow's funding. And Fed Chair Jerome Powell is set to testify today on Capitol Hill. We've got those stories and more after the break. Hey, what's news fans? Listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show ad free on Amazon music included with your prime membership? That's right. All your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon music ad free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown ad free as well. Amazon music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most ad free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your prime membership to start listening download the Amazon music app for free or visit Amazon dot com slash what's news. That's Amazon dot com slash what's news. It's just that easy. In other news moving the world today, Australia could be heading toward recession as its economy continues to slow. Market reporter Anna Hurtinstein said the country's 0.2% growth number for the fourth quarter adds to concerns that a hard landing is coming, especially if the reserve bank of Australia delivers on its plans to hike interest rates. The Australian Central Bank's treasure told reporters that the risks to the Australian economy are actually shifting from inflation to growth. So this is a rising concern. According to an economist where it's actually seeing some signals of this already on a per capita basis economic activity has slowed over the past year, the most in 33 years. He is in stark contrast to the strong US economy, which Fed chair Jerome Powell will be giving his take on later when he begins two days of congressional testimony. So what people are looking for is signals on timing. One could we potentially see interest rates start to come down for this particular testimony. Economists are broadly expecting him to deliver the same message that we've heard from a lot of officials recently. And that is that there's no rush to cut rates at this time. The situation is still at an elevated level. And we're hearing that they're looking for more proof, more data that's showing that it's coming down on our system all the way. Powell's statement is due at 10 a.m. Eastern. We are exclusively reporting that the front lines of the war between Ukraine and Russia now extend to Africa. According to several Ukrainian soldiers involved in the operation, Ukrainian commandos have been sent to Sudan to support the country's military ruler in a bloody civil war. And General Ukraine reporter Ian Levit told me about Kyiv's rationale for doing so. So Ukraine had several reasons for sending troops into Sudan. First of all, they've had a relationship with the Sudanese military since shortly after the Russian invasion in 2022. And so for a time, they were getting a significant number of weapons from Sudan, which is one of the most heavily armed countries in Africa. That was before Sudan's own civil war broke out. But more importantly, the Wagner paramilitary group has been mining gold in Sudan and in neighboring countries and using that to fund the war in Ukraine. So for Ukraine, this was an opportunity to really cut off the supply of gold to Moscow that's been helping fund the war in Ukraine. And to make it more costly for Russia both economically and militarily to pursue these kinds of interests. Though Ian, this is a strategy that's not without risks. The US has said that both sides, including the one that Ukraine is supporting, have committed war crimes in Sudan. And they've pretty explicitly warned other countries against getting involved. Egypt has been sending weapons to the Sudanese military and the United Arab Emirates has been sending weapons to the rebels. But as far as I'm aware, Ukraine is the first foreign country to actually send troops into the conflict. This obviously potentially risks alienating allies. In an interview, the head of Ukraine's military intelligence agency declined to comment on whether he deployed troops to Sudan. A spokesman for Ukraine's president didn't respond to requests for comment, nor did Russia's defense ministry. Meanwhile, Venezuela has announced that it will hold an election in July with current president Nicholas Maduro likely to seek a third, six-year term. Opposition candidates, however, some of whom are in exile are banned from running or prohibited from holding office, with analysts saying that Maduro wouldn't call an election without the certainty of winning. This comes as the US in October agreed to lift sanctions against Venezuela's oil industry in exchange for democratic concessions that the Maduro regime has since backpedaled on. Those sanctions are up for reconsideration in April. And in a seismic move in the college sports world, Dartmouth's men's basketball team has voted in favor of forming a union. The National Labor Relations Board says 13 of the team's 15 players voted to join the service employees' international union yesterday. After an NLRB official concluded the players are employees, given Dartmouth's ability to control the work they perform and because the players perform that work for compensation. Dartmouth immediately filed a request for that decision to be reviewed with the spokesman saying that, quote, Classifying these students as employees simply because they play basketball is as unprecedented as it is inaccurate. But as journal sports reporter Lane Higgins told us the debate about whether college athletes are playing or working for their schools is far from over. There is another NLRB case that is currently ongoing in California against USC, the PAC-12 conference and the NSTAA that could potentially be broader than this case at Dartmouth. Because right now the Dartmouth ruling, if it is upheld all the way to the Supreme Court, would only affect a handful of private universities and the athletic programs they have. And the vast majority of universities in DB-1, especially at the top level, are public. But the case out in California could potentially apply to every university in the country. While the NCAA has long insisted that college athletes are unpaid amateur students, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled in 2021 that strict NCAA rules. And that strict NCAA limits on compensation in the form of education-related benefits, violated antitrust laws. And that is what's news for Wednesday morning. Today's show was produced by Kate Bullivant and Hadi Moyer. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kylhoff and I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a news show. And until then, thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your Prime Membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.  Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. It's Biden vs Trump again after Nikki Haley exits the race for the White House. Even though we've had a long period of people not liking their presidential candidates, our polling shows that the intensity of dislike is stronger, the antipathy toward either man is higher than we've seen. And Troubled New York Community Bank Corp gets an investment of more than $1 million. Plus Fed Chair Powell says the central banks on track to cut rates this year. It's Wednesday, March 6th. I'm Amary for Tolly for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. We reported it exclusively this morning and now it's confirmed. Nikki Haley, the first major candidate to challenge Donald Trump for the 2024 GOP presidential nomination, has suspended her campaign. Haley lost all but two of this year's nominating contests. The former South Carolina governor was Trump's first ambassador to the United Nations. But in announcing her exit from the presidential race today, she declined to immediately endorse her former boss. It is now up to Donald Trump to earn the votes of those in our party and beyond it who did not support him. And I hope he does that. At its best, politics is about bringing people into your cause, not turning them away. And our conservative cause badly needs more people. After Super Tuesday, the path was further cleared for Trump to become the Republican standard bearer for the third consecutive presidential election. On his social media platform today, just before Haley made her announcement, Trump boasted that he'd quote, Trump's turn on Super Tuesday. Meanwhile, Trump picked up an endorsement from outgoing Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, despite years of acrimony. McConnell's decision to back Trump comes after weeks of negotiations aimed at repairing the rift between the two. McConnell blamed Trump for the January 6, 2021 attack on the U.S. Capitol, though he did not vote to convict Trump in his impeachment trial later that year. And then there were two. After Super Tuesday, the country is moving into a new phase of the 2024 presidential election and an expected matchup between President Biden and former President Donald Trump. It may be a rematch, but it's an election unlike any other. President Biden is the oldest presidential candidate ever, and Trump is only slightly younger. Both are essentially running as incumbents on already established White House track records, and they're pitching to a very polarized electorate. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal reporter and editor Aaron Zittner. Great to have you back, Aaron. Hey, good to be with you. Let's start there, Aaron. What the candidates have in common. It may seem to voters that not much, but they do share some similarities on age, on an existing record voters can look to. What else? Well, that's right. These are two. Well, Biden is the oldest president we've ever had. Trump isn't that far behind him. He's age 77. Biden is 81. And these people are universally known. We're going to go through the next months of this election, and for a lot of people, they're not going to learn a whole lot about these two men that they didn't know before. They're also very strongly disliked. And even though we've had a long period of people not liking their presidential candidates, our polling shows that the intensity of dislike is stronger. The antipathy toward either man is higher than we've seen. So given all of that, how are they going to be pitching their messages to an unenthused, and I imagine in some cases, we re-electar it. Well, that's right. I expect to see from Joe Biden a lot of negative advertising. He's got to make this a choice rather than a referendum on himself, because his job approval numbers are pretty weak. And I would highly expect his campaign to focus on raising the negatives of Donald Trump on at least three things. One is abortion, fortified by this IVF opinion that came out of Alabama. Two, I think you'll see them use the Trump tax cuts to argue that they went disproportionately to the wealthy and to corporations. And three, of course, is the fragility of democracy in our democratic institutions and what happened on January 6, 2021 after the election. Trump, of course, has been running against Biden for a long time and demonizes him. He's a very unusual candidate in that he has such an intense amount of loyalty among his supporters and continually fortifies that loyalty. What's been interesting to me with Trump lately is at this point in a campaign you would expect the candidate to move to the center and try to enlarge your group of supporters. He until very recently has still been out there demonizing Nikki Haley supporters, saying that their donors are not welcome in the Republican Party, saying we're running the Mitt Romney's out of this party. You know, Aaron, it also strikes me that a lot of what we're used to seeing during elections, the debates, the conventions are changing a lot too. That's right, the kind of rhythms that we've become accustomed to, really have changed. As you mentioned, we just had a series of debates that never heard from the leading candidate. We just had a series of primaries and caucuses which most people suspected were over before they ever started. Now we move into a general election in which, you know, can an 81 year old candidate barnstorm the country? How much can they put him on the campaign trail? We don't know if there are going to be debates. There's an argument for Joe Biden to participate, to try to put to rest, any questions about his mental acuity. But if they occur, I suspect that Americans are going to be watching them less for what policies each man would bring to the White House, because these are people who already have track records in the White House. Then for whether they're going to show that they have the mental acuity and physical robustness to handle the job. We talked a little bit earlier about the debate over abortion and access to reproductive rights. What else has shifted for voters over the past four years? Well, one of the main ones is inflation and immigration, particularly immigration. Our polling finds a rarity in politics, which is that an issue other than the economy is now top of mind for voters. And that is immigration. We still have this overhang of inflation. But as the economy and inflation kind of wane as issues, immigration has come to the fore. And it's just more prominent and more problematic than we've seen. And you're seeing large shares of independence and even Democrats say that immigration is a problem. And overall Americans are not satisfied with how Joe Biden is handling it. And finally, Aaron, we talk a lot about this being an unprecedented election. And there's really not a better word I can think of for it. One of the candidates, Trump, of course, is facing criminal trials. What are the next couple of months hold? Well, that's right. We've never had this kind of split screen election where events in the courtroom are playing out at the same time as events on the campaign trail. And Americans are going to have to sort through what they think about this and what it might mean that even once elected their new president of its Trump could be hampered by civil cases where he's had serious adverse judgments against him. That could cripple his family business and criminal cases that could still be ongoing while he's in office. We've just never seen that before. That's Wall Street Journal reporter and editor Aaron Zittner. Coming up, Fed Chair Jerome Powell says the feds on track for rate cuts this year. So when will we see them more details after the break? Hey, what's news fans? Listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? That's right. All your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music Add Free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like the Daily up first in Fox News rundown Add Free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most Add Free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your prime membership. To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free or visit Amazon dot com slash what's news? That's Amazon dot com slash what's news? It's just that easy. New York Community Bank Corp is getting an investment of more than $1 billion from a group of investors including former US Treasury Secretary Stephen Mnuchin. The group led by Mnuchin's Liberty Strategic Capital also includes Hudson Bay Capital, Reference Capital Partners and some of the bank's management. The banks said the investors have agreed to buy common and convertible preferred stock. And YCB also announced an overhaul of its management. As we've been reporting, the bank has been in crisis since it showed signs of trouble in its commercial real estate books in January. Swung to a fourth quarter loss and slash its dividend. Last week, it disclosed that it had found material weaknesses in the way it assesses and monitors loans, triggering several credit downgrades. The Securities and Exchange Commission has approved a new climate disclosure rule that requires public companies to report their greenhouse gas emissions. But the amended rule stopped short of requiring them to report certain indirect emissions like those from their supply chains and customers use of their products. Environmental groups argue leaving them out misses the biggest chunk of greenhouse gases. Adoption of the new rule caps a contentious two-year process of intense lobbying from some of the world's biggest industries and influential climate groups. Corporations and Republicans had fought against it, arguing the SEC was reaching beyond its authority. Companies will need to start reporting emissions for fiscal year 2026. Some smaller companies won't be required to disclose them. Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell said the Central Bank is on track to cut rates this year, in remarks today before the House Financial Services Committee. Powell said January inflation and hiring data haven't changed the expectation of rate cuts, but that the Fed wants to see more evidence that inflation is slowing sustainably. I'm joined now by our Chief Economics correspondent, Nick Timoros. Nick, what exactly does that mean, a sustainable slowdown? What is the Fed looking for? Well, what Powell said today is they basically have had six very good months of inflation and they just want to make sure it's more than six. So he said a little bit more data. The markets are pricing in a June rate cut and he said nothing today to really rule that out. So it looks like we're heading towards a June rate cut. Maybe they will push it back if the economy continues to surprise with stronger growth data and firmer inflation. But he really didn't seem to react to the fact that inflation in January had been higher than expected. So on track for June, the big question has been basically when these cuts are going to happen. Yeah, I mean, he didn't say June and he didn't say May. They have pretty much ruled out doing it at their next meeting, which is in two weeks. You know, they'll have more data by the time of their early May meeting. They'll have even more data by the time of their June meeting. And if it looks like it has, you know, late last year, economy doing fine, but inflation coming in cool, that could keep the door open really for a June cut. You know, the risks for the Fed haven't really changed over the past few months. If they stay at a very high interest rate as inflation comes down, it's possible that their policy stance will be tighter than the economy needs and you'd have a bigger slowdown, then you really need to get inflation down. The other risk is that they ease too much or too soon and you have inflation progress, stall or reverse. Any other insights from Powell today on the state of the economy? Well, the big surprise today was that he pretty much, you know, threw the white flag up on this bank regulation proposal that has met with a lot of pushback from the industry. He suggested there would be broad and material changes to it. That's something the industry has been pushing for. And so it means that it'll probably delay when these rules take effect. That's Wall Street Journal chief economics correspondent Nick Timoros. And finally, sports gambling has exploded in recent years. The US Supreme Court overturned a federal ban on the practice in 2018 and since then most states have legalized it. Wagers are especially popular among men and younger Americans. In a civic science survey, 47% of millennials and 58% of Gen Zers admit to betting on sports games. Now some young betters are taking their chances on gambling to help pay back their student loans. Our finance reporting fellow, Kaelin Rowan, looked into it. With the resumption of student loan payments and still low in debt rising to more than 1.7 trillion over the past decade, more young men and more young people are turning to sports money. My source, Kael Daniels, who was a 29 year old hospital patient transporter, who was able to pay off his $7,000 dollar student loan debt. But even he says he's very lucky and has recommend people to do this, and they're not disciplined. While there's no data on how many people are doing this to pay off student loan debt, since sports gambling became legal in the sale of Ohio, the problem gambling network of Ohio knows more young people are calling his hotline a side 55% increase in that first year. Of course, consumer advocates warn against gambling to pay your monthly bills. And that's what's news for this Wednesday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre Biennium and Anthony Bansy, with supervising producer Michael Kusmedi's. I'm Anne Marie for Totally for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.