 Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. A threat to Apple's app store dominance as a new EU tech law comes into force. This new law is pushing Apple to open up parts of its closed app ecosystem. So in the EU, users are going to get a screen that says, hey, do you want to use Safari? Or do you want to use any of these other browsers? Plus, Chinese exports surge as the West ready's tariffs to stem a flood of cheap goods. And the US sounds the alarm over the situation in Haiti as warlords threaten to take over the country and trigger mass migration. It's Thursday, March 7th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal and here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. The world's largest tech companies will soon be waking up to a new regulatory landscape in Europe as the EU's digital markets act begins to apply to them at midnight tonight. The sweeping law is aimed at boosting competition from smaller companies. Those journal tech reporter Sam Schackner told me one of its biggest near-term impacts could be on the rival reap between Apple and Google. This new law is pushing Apple to open up parts of its closed app ecosystem, which is really one of the cornerstones of its business model. It's going to be allowing third-party app stores for the first time, at least in the EU, and it's going to start allowing alternative ways to do in-app payments across the EU. These are two things that the company really was loathed to do. They lobbied against the third-party app stores, calling it a huge security risk. On the flip side, you have Google, which already allows you to use alternative app stores. It already allows you to install apps not through their Play Store. In fact, Google actually lobbied for this requirement to be put into the digital market act. Sam, there are some other ways that Google could benefit from this law. Totally. Google actually could take advantage of an element of the law that requires companies like Google and Apple to give users a choice for competing services in certain areas. One of them is web browsers. If they offer a web browser, they have to allow a choice for competing web browsers. In the EU, users are going to get a screen that says, hey, do you want to use Safari, which is Apple's default the browser they make, or do you want to use any of these other browsers? Google's Chrome browser will be on that list. It's possible, or even likely, that they'll pick up a slightly higher percentage of Chrome browser users in the EU on iPhones. Meanwhile, in Washington, House lawmakers have introduced legislation that could ban TikTok in the United States. If its owner, Chinese internet company Bite Dance doesn't divest itself from the video sharing app. The bill's Republican backer said that America's foremost adversary had no business controlling a dominant media platform in the United States. While its Democratic backer described the bill as giving the President tools to defend American security and privacy. A TikTok spokesperson said the bill would trample on First Amendment rights and affect its 170 million American users. Earlier attempts by lawmakers to ban TikTok haven't come to fruition. China has kicked off 2024 with a surge in exports, setting it up for a backlash from Western economies. The 7.1% rise in exports in January and February, top-to-cottomest expectations and follows a much weaker 2.3% export growth reading in December. The data comes as Republican senators earlier this month proposed new tariffs on Chinese-made cars in order to stop what Florida's Marco Rubio described as Beijing's attempt to, quote, flood the U.S. market with artificially cheap vehicles. However, as journal reporter Ben Dumbett explains Beijing isn't likely to curtail those exports as it hopes to hit ambitious growth expectations of around 5% that it's set this week. Yeah, no doubt the latest numbers are impressive. Export activity has been up and down during COVID, it was particularly strong but slow dramatically as the world reopened. That said, this recent evidence of return of growth and export activity won't be enough, even if it continues. Domestic demand for goods and services also needs to strengthen simply because Chinese economy is so big that it can't rely on one source of demand alone. And that one source of demand may also weaken again in March with Chinese officials issuing a warning that exports are likely to soften this month. A Hoothy attack on a Barbados flagged ship off Yemen yesterday has killed three people on board according to the ship's owner. It marks the first loss of life on a commercial vessel since the rebel group began attacking ships in the Red Sea region in late November, upending the shipping industry's ability to travel through one of the world's busiest waterways. And that unrest is also now threatening key internet cables with the majority of internet traffic between Europe and East Asia running through the Red Sea. Telecom's reporter Drufits Gerald says that although the narrow street has always posed risks for telecom infrastructure, one recent attack by Iran-backed Hoothies managed to meaningfully worsen web service in India, Pakistan and parts of East Africa. There were at least three cables that were cut last month. One of the companies responsible for these cables said that their expectation is that they will be able to start repairs in April at the earliest. Of course, that timeline could change because the area is subject to rocket attacks frequently. Any ship going out there for repairs will need permits from the country where it is doing the work. Now Yemen is the midst of a civil war, so it will need permits not only from the Hootie government, but the internationally recognized government that holds the rest of the country. So that is going to be a consideration that these cable repair ships are going to have to think about as they enter these dangerous waters. Another aspect is just insurance is extremely expensive and fixing those cables is not something that's done in a day. The majority of internet cables around the world lie at the bottom of the sea with land installation posing far greater risks and costs. The Prime Minister of Haiti is facing mounting pressure to step down and call for elections as warlords threaten to take over the Western Hemisphere's poorest nation. The regional efforts signal rising concern about Haiti's security situation and the potential that escalating gang warfare there could spark mass migration out of the country. Yesterday, U.S. State Department spokesperson Matthew Miller directed this appeal to Prime Minister Ariel Henri. We are not calling on him or pushing for him to resign, but we are urging him to expedite the transition to an empowered and inclusive governance structure that will move with urgency to help the country prepare for a multinational security support mission to address the security situation and pave the way for free and fair elections. Henri has thus far resisted calls to set up a transitional government or hold new elections. Back in Washington, House lawmakers are closing in on the end of a months-long fight over funding the government after approving a package of six spending bills. That move completes the budget process for a slew of federal agencies, including the agriculture, justice, transportation and interior departments, and sets the stage for final negotiations over the rest of the year's budget. The spending package agreed to yesterday is expected to receive a Senate vote by week's end. And President Biden is today set to propose raising taxes on large companies as part of several announcements expected in his State of the Union address. The plans include raising the corporate minimum tax from 15 to 21 percent and could make tax policy a major contention point in the coming election. Many of the tax cuts signed into law by Republicans in 2017 are set to expire at the end of next year, with Biden calling those tax cuts in unfair giveaway to Americans who can afford to pay more. While Republicans say the 2017 tax law has been an economic success. Coming up as Scandinavia attracts more foreign investment than anywhere else, we'll look at why the world's biggest economy the U.S. is lagging behind. That story, after the break. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown, Add Free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most Add Free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your Prime membership. To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free or visit Amazon.com slash What's News. That's amazon.com slash What's News. It's just that easy. Investors are pouring money into Scandinavian countries more than anywhere else. A new report from the Melcon Institute has found that Denmark is the most attractive country for foreign direct investment on a per capita basis, followed by Sweden, Finland, and then the United States in fourth place. So why is the world's largest economy not attracting the most investment? Our Kate Bullivan spoke to Maggie Sweetech, lead author of the Melcon Institute's Global Opportunity Index, which looks at which economic and financial conditions will foster and attract FDI. Maggie, before we look at how the U.S. performed, what is it about Denmark that makes it the top country for people to invest in? So in the case of Denmark, it really is a country that is benefiting from a very strong business perception and from strong economic fundamentals. And so focusing on this other category, economic fundamentals for a moment, this is a category in which we include three different subcategories, work for talent, economic performance, and a future environment for growth. Measures that are related to the ESG type of concerns that investors had had in recent years. So agricultural land, air pollution, carbon emissions, also factors related to governance and inclusivity, social inclusivity, mobile broadband subscriptions, mobile phone subscribers, percentage of woman and government. And those are all indicators that are included in the future environment for growth. And then Mark and Finland and Sweden actually all do quite well in that particular subcategory. And that is really what tends to prop them up to the top of the index. That's super interesting. And on the other hand, the U.S. came in at fourth place. Why is that? It's also be clear in recent years, FDI to the United States has actually increased. It jumped around 30% in between 2018 and 2022. So it's doing well. When it comes to things that could do better, I would say that it's really these economic fundamentals where the United States tends to perform slightly less than the average advanced economy. The economic performance, it's really it's a high central government debt that is driving the country down and indicators in terms of factors such as the future environment for growth, the CO2 emissions remain relatively high in the United States, which is a factor that tends to drive it down. So these are still aspects that the United States could improve, but it is still attracting significant capital investment. So the countries that attract the most FDI are consistently advanced economies, but your report also revealed an interesting shift in investment flows into emerging and developing economies. What we see is really in recent years, there has been a movement of capital into Latin America. And really there's two countries that capture more than 60% of foreign direct investment in flows into Latin America and those are Brazil and Mexico. And that is because Brazil, it has a relatively strong foreign emerging country financial services sector and in particular high financial access for its population. In the case of Mexico, it really benefits from both its geographic location, it's border with the United States, but it also actually is one of the emerging and developing nations with the strongest economic openness. It's by the other investment treaties that have really allowed capital to enter the country. Okay, so China was weighed down the list at number 39. What does this tell us about how China is performing on the global stage? Being a number 39 for a country that remains according to the IMF classified as an emerging and developing economy is actually not that low. However, what I would say about China is that certainly in recent years in the post-pandemic period, there has been a decrease in capital inflows into China. So in 2022, for the first time, more capital exited China than entered. And that in general, drove down the capital inflows into the entire emerging and developing Asian region that may not become a long-term pattern. But for now what we are seeing is this short-term movement moving away from China and into Latin America. Okay, Maggie. So what are the lessons learned here? So institutions matter having a strong institutional framework matters, having strong economic fundamentals, matters. These are all things that we observe among our top 20 country ranks in the global opportunity index. These top 20 countries really attract around 60% of capital inflows generally around the world. That is, Manita is establishing new factories, new businesses that could generate work. It has been found that an increase in foreign direct investment is correlated with job generation, especially formal jobs for people that may be working in the informal economy and that would be looking to move into the formal economy. Now is it that's going to be a change that happens overnight? No. But in the long term, it could have effects on a person's day-to-day life. That was Maggie Sweetech, lead author of the Milkin Institute's Global Opportunity Index. Maggie, thanks so much for being here. Thank you so much, pleasure. And that is What's News for Thursday Morning. Today's show was produced by capable of it and hadymoyer. Our supervising producer is Sandra Killhoff and I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. And until then, thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your Prime Membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.  Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. A U.S. espionage investigation finds communication devices on Chinese cranes at U.S. ports. This is coming amid a backdrop of great bipartisan concerns in both the Democratic and Republican Party about Chinese technology and Chinese supply chains infiltrating the United States, and the potential for disruptions or risks in the event of a serious conflict with Beijing. And a forensic DNA scandal threatens thousands of criminal cases in Colorado. Plus, a Wall Street Journal investigation shows a surge of illegal settler construction in the West Bank. It's Thursday, March 7. I'm Amary for Tolly for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. The findings of a congressional investigation of Chinese-built cargo cranes at U.S. ports is raising concerns the foreign machines may pose a covert national security risk. We report exclusively that the U.S. has found communications equipment that doesn't appear to support normal operations, including in some cases cellular modems that could be accessed remotely. That's according to congressional aides and documents. Joining me now with more on the Wall Street Journal scoop is our Cybersecurity and Intelligence Reporter Dustin Volts. Welcome back Dustin. Thanks for having me. So what exactly does the equipment that was found in this investigation do? Well, there are a lot of questions that congressional investigators are still trying to get to the bottom of. But essentially, these are modems built within the cranes that could allow for remote access and might not necessarily be nefarious in their use. In fact, modems are often included on these types of cranes and they can be used to sort of support mobile diagnostic tests and monitoring of how the cranes are functioning at the ports. But what seems to be alarming lawmakers and others that have learned about this is that at least in some of the cases, the U.S. ports that have these modems did not actually ask for them in their contracts. They might not be doing something suspicious or nefarious, but the fact that they were seemingly not actually being used for anything by the ports and do have this remote capability of being accessed at least is giving a lot of concern for lawmakers in Congress and prompting them to investigate and ask more questions. What are the major concerns U.S. officials have? So the concerns are twofold. One, there's sort of a risk or a fear that these cranes could be sort of tracking what's going in and out of port for normal importations or those maybe that are military related and that by tracking sort of the shipping. There could glean certain insights about sort of what's going on in the U.S. with our economy and with our military movements and that sort of thing. The second concern is sort of a more, I guess, Hollywood style scenario where these cranes could actually be sort of disrupted or taken off line if they sort of came baked with some sort of hidden software that could then be activated. Likely in a conflict with China over Taiwan or something like that and then once again, that would sort of be a rather calamitous to have our ports no longer able to function anymore. This is especially concerning for people because about 80% of cranes throughout the United States at our ports are Chinese furnished by a state owned company in China called ZPMC. How is China and that state owned company responding to those concerns? ZPMC has not responded to our requests for comments. The Chinese government says that this is simply paranoia on the part of the United States and that this is basically a form of economic protectionism that's trying to decouple China from the U.S. economy and sort of favor domestic solutions. That was sort of the response especially after last month the Biden administration took the step of announcing they were going to invest over $20 billion over the next five years in replacing these Chinese cranes with those that are going to be built domestically. How else might the U.S. respond given these concerns? It remains to be seen. The $20 billion investment was a really big step. The administration has said that they remain concerned and are continuing to investigate the crane issue. This is coming amid a backdrop of great bipartisan concerns in both the Democratic and Republican Party about Chinese technology and Chinese supply chains infiltrating the United States and the potential for disruptions or risks in the event of a serious conflict with Beijing. So there's a lot happening across many industries to try to address the perceived risks of Chinese technology within American society. And separately the House Homeland Security Committee said that it is continuing to investigate the specific issue and that they're planning to release or finish a report in April that hopefully will give more public attention to the concerns that they have about Chinese cranes. Wall Street Journal, Cybersecurity and Intelligence Reporter, Dustin Volts. Coming up, a forensic DNA scandal in Colorado is throwing the state's justice system into chaos, threatening thousands of criminal cases. More after the break. Hey, what's news fans? Listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? That's right, all your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music ad-free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown ad-free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most ad-free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your prime membership. To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free or visit Amazon.com slash what's news? That's Amazon.com slash what's news. It's just that easy. A scandal is unfolding in the field of forensic DNA testing. An expert say it could be one of the largest in history. For nearly three years, Yvonne Missy Woods was Colorado's star forensic scientist and her work was considered a gold standard by colleagues. But she abruptly resigned in November. On the same day, the state's Bureau of Investigation said it had discovered anomalies in her work during an internal review. And that it was launching a criminal probe. The state said it would need to review and retest about 3,000 DNA samples would handle. And public defenders estimate thousands of cases could be affected. Our enterprise reporter Dan Frosh has more. You have district attorney's offices all over the state who are having to sift through hundreds of cases where Missy was listed as a witness or a potential witness. And figure out to what extent she handled DNA evidence in those cases. You have the Colorado Bureau investigation conducting a probe into Missy's handling of DNA evidence for the last 29 years. And trying to figure out what exactly she did and what impact her alleged misconduct may have on cases. And then you have defense lawyers who are trying to figure out if their clients cases, some of which have long since been adjudicated, were impacted as well. So together you have sort of a chaotic moment in Colorado's criminal justice system that could potentially impact thousands of cases. An attorney for Wood says she's cooperating with the investigation and that she stands by the reliability and integrity of her work. Hamas has paused his participation in talks aimed at securing a ceasefire in Gaza. Officials familiar with the discussions say the group's leader is demanding Israel commit to discussing a permanent stop in fighting, which puts him at odds with other Hamas leaders. Israel has said a collapse in talks would prompt it to move ahead with a military operation against Rafa, which it sees as Hamas's last major stronghold in Gaza. U.S. and Arab officials have been pushing Israel and Hamas to agree to a six week truce ahead of the start of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan. A Wall Street Journal investigation has found that since October 7th, Israeli settlers have been rapidly building illegal roads and outposts across the West Bank. The Wall Street Journal's video investigations team produced a video detailing the findings. Reporter Ben Solomon documented it on the ground. The journal found these roads are often being built in just a few days, partially with money from the Israeli government. According to videos the journal verified and local witnesses, much of this work is being done with unmarked construction vehicles, often under armed guard. Settlements are illegal under international law, but legal under Israeli law. Over the years, some members of the movement began creating new small encampments known as outposts, which are illegal under both Israeli and international law. Now researchers say since October 7th, the pace of outposts and illegal road construction is surging. Israeli researcher and activist Jor Etkis has combed the West Bank tracking expansions like these since 2002. Roads are connecting outposts with settlements, they're connecting outposts with outposts, they're connecting outposts with agricultural area, and there are also important borders which every Palestinian understand that they cannot cross, geographic dominance. This is exactly what these all settlements outpost roads are all about. This is what it's all about. Many settlers say roads are built to avoid confrontations with Palestinians. The Israeli government says if it sees illegal construction, it takes action, though the government declined to review the journal's findings. You can see our video investigation on WSJ.com. We'll leave a link in the show notes. In other news, the Justice Department plans to pay whistleblowers who tell prosecutors about corporate crime. This adds a new incentive to attract more tipsters to aid the government. They'd be paid out of money that defendants forfeit when they settle criminal charges or a sentence after a guilty plea or conviction. Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco said the Department plans to launch a pilot program later this year. whistleblowing has already become a lucrative if risky profession for some insiders. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission operates similar programs. In his second day of testimony on Capitol Hill, Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell told lawmakers the central bank is not far from being able to cut interest rates. Powell repeated his view that the Fed was looking for greater confidence that inflation was returning to its 2% target as we reported yesterday. But today he went a step further by qualifying how soon the Fed might get there. Yesterday, Powell had signaled that the Fed wasn't considering a rate cut at its next meeting on March 19th and 20th. That shifted attention to whether the central bank might be in a position to cut rates around the middle of the year. President Biden will deliver his state of the Union address tonight at 9 p.m. Eastern time. He's expected to talk about his economic agenda and call for unity amid a divided government. The speech will give Biden what will likely be his largest televised audience before this summer's democratic national convention. The parents of imprisoned Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovic, who is detained in Russia, will be there as guests of House Speaker Mike Johnson. The US government has designated him as wrongfully detained. You can follow our live coverage of the state of the Union at WSJ.com. And finally, Bike theft is a profitable business that's become more lucrative with the arrival of expensive electric bikes. According to the Bike Registry Project 529, almost 2 million bikes are stolen each year, costing cyclists almost a billion dollars. That's up from 500 million dollars a decade ago. Police say they take Bike theft seriously, but often lack the manpower to tackle the problem. So a cohort of amateur detectives in cities like Minneapolis, Minnesota, Portland, Oregon, and Burlington, Vermont have taken it upon themselves to find stolen bikes and return them to their owners. Wall Street Journal contributor John Clark says recovering these bikes can get a little dicey. They're pretty committed and very creative. You know, they're different people, you know, different ages. Mike Pavlovich has seen a lot. He has a military background. Generally, kind of meet people after they put up the bikes or sale on anything from Craig Blip to Facebook Marketplace. And then he'll meet a thief and basically just confirm that the bike is the one he'd after. And then just calmly tell him, hey, that's my bike. Do you want to meet a call of police? You just want to hand it over. And often the alleged thief just handed over. He had a pussle with one guy for a bike and had to use a bear spray on him to get away clean on the bike. He had a lot of these interactions with people and it's how they get to real adrenaline rush for these guys. Yikes. I remember the days when having a bike lock was all you'd need. Mike's local police department says it commends residents for stepping up to improve safety in their communities, but it doesn't endorse aggressive tactics that put anyone in harm's way. And that's what's news for this Thursday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre BNMA and Anthony Vancey with supervising producer Michael Kissmedis. I'm Ann Marie for Tolly for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.