 Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. President Biden shifts into campaign mode in a fiery state of the Union address. What makes our moment rare is a freedom of democracy, a rendered attack at both at home and overseas at the very same time. Plus the US military plans to construct a pier off the coast of Gaza to speed the flow of humanitarian aid. And on International Women's Day we'll look at how cuts to government spending threaten progress on gender equality. It's Friday, March 8th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal and here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. Drawing sharp contrasts with congressional Republicans and with Donald Trump, President Biden used last night's state of the Union address to warn Americans that their freedoms are at risk at home and that America's adversaries are on the march overseas. With several Supreme Court justices looking on, Biden confronted the court over its 2022 decision to eliminate the right to an abortion, invoking an issue that has succeeded in driving Democrats to the polls. Those bragging about overturning the road we would have no clue about the power of women, but they found out when reproductive freedom was on the ballot, we won in 2022 and 2020 and we'll win again in 2024. Standing in the House of Representatives, Biden also referenced the January 6th 2021 Capitol riot, accusing Republicans of undermining US democracy with false claims of election fraud and telling them that you can't love our country only when you win. Turning abroad, Biden urged members of Congress to back another round of military aid for Ukraine. That could hinge on Republican House Speaker Mike Johnson bringing up a Senate approved aid package for a vote, something that he says he won't be pressured into doing given its omission of certain border security measures. Without naming Johnson, who was seated behind him, Biden criticized Republicans for backing away from a border deal negotiated by the White House and bipartisan lawmakers only after Trump came out against it. The result was a bipartisan bill with the toughest set of border security forms we've ever seen. Oh, you don't think so? Oh, you don't like that bill, huh? That conservatives got together and said it was a good bill? I'll be darned. That's amazing. Well, another of the night's most memorable moments also centered on immigration when Biden was interrupted by Georgia Republican Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene, who raised the name of nursing student Laken Riley, who was killed late last month, allegedly by an immigrant who police say entered the country illegally. Challenge to say her name Biden held up a pin with her name on it described her as having been killed by a quote illegal and said that he empathized with her parents having lost children himself. Damian Paleta is the journal's Washington coverage chief. This is something that Republicans have been kind of pushing him to do and he did. So I think in a way it showed that he was not trying to run away from this issue. He was not trying to run away from some of the problems caused by the border crisis, but he's asking them to help with solutions. Now whether it's going to be enough, whether it's too little too late, it'll take some time to tell. But the way that he kind of departed from his prepare remarks and made that gesture, I think that was something that we might be talking about months from now when we're trying to look back at this issue. In the Republican response to the state of the Union, freshman Alabama Senator Katie Britt criticized Biden's age and called his performance that of a permanent politician who'd been in office for longer than she had been alive. Britt went on to call Biden's action on illegal immigration insufficient and said Republicans strongly support access to in vitro fertilization. The latest evidence of GOP lawmakers scrambling to reassure voters that the procedure in contrast to abortion has the full support of the party. In a key state of the Union policy announcement, President Biden has said the US military plans to install a temporary peer off the coast of the Gaza Strip for cargo ships to unload essential aid. The president has been under pressure to do more to alleviate civilian suffering in Gaza, where the Israeli military is fighting the Hamas militant group. But his journal correspondent, Sooner-Raspussen, told us it's unclear just how much of an impact the US plans will have. The idea is to transport aid from Cyprus on ships to Gaza, where they will then erect this temporary peer floating in the water. The aid will be screened by Israel in Cyprus and the Israeli ship is ultimately meant to accompany the aid as it travels towards Gaza to ensure that no weapons or other materials that could benefit Hamas are delivered with the aid. Once the aid arrives at the peer, it will have to be transported by land to the people in need. And we don't know how those aid deliveries will be secured. There's been the wide-scale collapse of law and order. President Biden has said that he is not going to put American troops on the ground and US officials say that they are in conversations with the UN about how to secure these aid deliveries. But it is unclear how that will actually happen. According to US officials, one shipment will provide roughly 200 truckloads of aid, a far cry from the 500 truckloads of aid that Gaza received on a daily basis prior to the war. A house panel has approved plans to force TikTok's Chinese owner to sell the video sharing app or face an outright ban across the US. TikTok had urged its users to call Congress in an attempt to drop the bill with house staffers across the Capitol during hours of non-stop phone calls. But those efforts backfired with the house now expected to hold a floor vote on the bill. The House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party has called TikTok a grave threat to US national security, while a company spokesperson has said the legislation would deny the 170 million American users of the app their constitutional right to free expression. Boeing is overhauling employee bonuses in order to emphasize quality and safety over meeting financial targets. According to a company memo, safety and quality metrics will now account for 60% of annual bonuses in Boeing's commercial unit. It comes in response to production problems identified as a cause of the doorplug blowout on an Alaska air flight in January. At the same time, Boeing will today begin contract negotiations with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers Union for the first time in 16 years. The Union is seeking a 40% wage increase, the return of a defined benefit pension and a commitment from Boeing that the next new jet will be produced by its own. And today's US Jobs Report is set to cap a blockbuster week for economic data. Investors have already been dissecting Fed Chair Jerome Powell's congressional testimony, and today's non-farm payrolls data will provide further clues on where the US economy is headed and what that means for the Fed's rate plans. Eric Wallerstein covers global macro economics for the journal and he says that traders have become a lot more focused on data points like the Jobs Report in recent months. So non-farm payrolls is definitely one of the biggest economic indicators specifically in this cycle where pretty much all of Wall Street's gearing up for the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates. At some point this year, if you see a weaker non-farm payrolls print which shows some loosening or some cooling of the labor market, traders would definitely say, interest rates are coming down, you know, I'm going to buy bonds expecting yields to fall during this cycle where the Fed's been tightening policy. We've seen traders up to six hours ahead of an economic data print starting to trade treasury futures. So it's definitely a shift from years prior where maybe there'd be an half hour or an hour before the data traders would start trading. So it really just speaks to how focused investors are on the Fed that said we're very data dependent. Our future policy decisions are going to depend on all the incoming data. Coming up as governments around the world pull back on spending, we'll look at how those cuts disproportionately affect women. That story and more after the break. Hey, what's news fans? Listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? That's right, all your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music Add Free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown Add Free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most Add Free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your prime membership. To start listening download the Amazon Music app for free or visit Amazon dot com slash what's news? That's Amazon dot com slash what's news? It's just that easy. The United Nations is marking this year's International Women's Day today by calling on countries to invest in women. I mean, what they say is a $360 billion annual spending deficit on gender equality measures. And as governments tighten their belts, they warn that austerity policies could disproportionately hurt women and potentially put targets to achieve gender equality by the end of the decade out of reach. To address that, the UN is calling for the implementation of gender responsive financing and here to explain what that is and why it may be necessary. I'm joined by Bill Gates, Airtown, an associate professor of economics and international affairs at Northeastern University. Bill Gates, the UN is citing a recent estimate that 75% of countries around the world are likely to curb public spending by the year 2025 with the reasons for that being conflict as well as rising costs for everything from food to fuel. What effect is that trend likely to have on women? One thing to consider is that when we think about macroeconomic policies, we often think of it as gender neutral, but these economic policy choices affect women and men differently. Women are disproportionately represented in the public sector in many countries and when there's a budget cut that affects these sectors, women are more likely to suffer from job losses and also reduce wages. But also, women are also predominantly consumers of these services like programs for single mothers, healthcare and social services, reproductive health services, as well as child benefits. So when budget cuts specifically affect these services, they tend to also increase the burden on women as they can have to increase their unpaid care labor to fill in the gaps that basically public sector has left. And yet we are seeing Bill Gates more and more evidence of what some people have called a she economy taking root driven for, by instance, greater workforce participation among women, jump in female entrepreneurship as well. Are we getting closer to a point where women are more insulated against shocks of the sort we've been talking about here? So when we look at women's labor force participation, for example, in the US, it has been increasing since the pandemic. So in January 2024 data, it stands at 57.5%, but when we compare that before the pandemic, for example, February 2020, it was 58%. And so in that sense, there is not a very big increase in women's labor force participation. It just recovered to the levels before the pandemic. But when we look at sort of the self-employment specifically, so it makes up about 10% of employment in the US. And that has been increasing. And what they found was that self-employment really increased among women, and especially non-white women that were coming from relatively less educated people. And they also found that women with young children specifically took up this self-employment precisely because it was hard to take care of children during the pandemic and try to work at the same time. But when we look at sort of what happens since the pandemic also that a lot of policies expired. For example, Biden administration announced a new rule to reduce child care costs that's going to basically limit family payments to 7% of their income. They're also increasing subsidies to the providers. But what is estimated is it's going to only affect costs for about 100,000 children. So we're talking about really the very low income Americans are going to benefit from this and it's not going to be a very generalized benefit. Okay, however, some policymakers are trying to keep the focus on gender equality. The UN for instance is calling for gender responsive financing, though that does sound like spending money in a time of austerity. The idea of gender responsive budgeting has been around for a really long time. But what it essentially means is that we want to ensure that both men and women benefit equally from different public sector programs. And if a program needs to be cut, that it that also need to be evaluated whether who is going to suffer from that reduction in spending. There are different options that governments can have. First of all, the debts that they accumulated during the pandemic can be rescheduled. But also, you know, they can think about raising more revenue and progressive taxation is one of the ways in which they can actually raise more funding in order to reduce the budget deficits. And in addition, there is a lot of concerns about women's reproductive rights. And that's not even a budget issue. That's a much really a political issue currently in the United States after the Supreme Court decision to overturned Roy V. Wade, where we see several states outright banned abortion. Women who are turned down when they want to denobortion, they can see the experience significant financial hardship going forward. Their credit scores deteriorated over time. There is other related research that show that also this has implications for education and labor market outcomes. And there's even suggestion that such increasing financial stress can lead to more intra-hustled conflict and violence towards women. So we need to consider basically a very broad set of policies when it comes to thinking about gender equality and what types of policies help improve gender pay gaps in the US. Bilga Erton is an associate professor of economics and international affairs at Northeastern University. Bilga, thank you so much for being with us on What's News. Thanks for having me. And that is What's News for Friday Morning. Today's episode was produced by Kate Bollivan and Charlie Duffield with additional support from Hattie Moir. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kylhoff and I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. Otherwise, have a great weekend and happy International Women's Day. Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.  Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. The latest US jobs numbers show strong hiring, but also signs of cooling. And where are the nation's job hotspots? Turns out they're moving. More broadly, we are seeing a shift when we're talking to geographic patterns. We're also seeing more of a suburban shift too. Plus, a probe finds Colorado's star DNA analyst intentionally manipulated data. It's Friday, March 8th. I'm Ann Marie for Tolley for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. Let's start with the jobs numbers on this jobs Friday. A US hiring boom continued in February, though there are signs of cooling. The Labor Department set employers added 275,000 jobs. Far surpassing the 198,000 economists had expected. Unemployment ticked up a notch to 3.9% and wage growth slowed. Reporter David Uberty has more details on today's report. The major sectors that led jobs growth were namely health care, government and food services, so restaurants and bars. Additionally, and this is sort of an interesting cross tab that we found deeper in the data, a lot of the gains in the US labor force over the last year have actually been driven by a growing immigrant workforce. So these are foreign-born workers, as opposed to American native-born workers. That's just an interesting footnote that has really helped fuel some of this labor market expansion. The Goldilocks report, that is not too hot, not too cold, just like in the fairy tale, also supports the Fed's rate cut outlook. Here's David again. The key takeaways are that the US economy remains pretty strong, and importantly, it is walking this very fine line between being too strong, which could help fuel a rebound in inflation, and also in the other hand, slowing down too fast, which could lead to a recession. All of this suggests that the economy is making progress to the proverbial soft landing. Investors across the country expect the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates in the coming months, and nothing in this report really suggests that they will deviate from that at this point. On yesterday's show, we told you about an unfolding DNA scandal in Colorado that posed a threat to thousands of criminal cases. Today we have an update to that story. A preliminary investigation has found Colorado's star DNA scientist, Ivonne Missy Woods, intentionally manipulated evidence for years. The review did not find that Woods falsified DNA matches or fabricated DNA profiles, but the report said Woods omitted material facts and records, tampered with DNA testing results and violated lab policies. It said at least 652 cases she handled between 2008 and 2023 were affected. Woods's lawyer said she never created or falsely reported any ex-culpatory DNA evidence or gave false testimony resulting in wrongful convictions or imprisonment. He said she is cooperating with the ongoing investigation. And former President Donald Trump says he secured a nearly $92 million bond to cover a defamation judgment of more than $83 million that he owes to writer E. Jean Carroll. Trump is still facing severe financial burdens. He's also been ordered to pay $355 million in penalties, stemming from a civil fraud case in New York. The interest continues to grow daily and the total amount now stands at around $454 million. Coming up from the job market to the new job hotspots, where to find them after the break. Hey what's news fans, listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? That's right, all your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music Add Free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown Add Free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most Add Free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your prime membership. To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free or visit Amazon dot com slash what's news? That's Amazon dot com slash what's news? It's just that easy. The nation's hottest job spots are shifting to sun belt cities before the pandemic. The West was leading jobs growth and analysis by the economic innovation group found employment there was growing by 2.3%. The highest rate among the nation's regions, but that's changed, especially after a series of tech layoffs as a last spring the sun belt region from the Southwest to the southeast was leading the pack joining me now with more is our workplace reporter to ping Chen. Welcome back to ping. Thanks for having me. So what sun belt cities are most attractive and why? Yeah, so we've seen jobs growth really boom in a number of cities across the sun belt. Some of the places that are seeing the highest degree of growth or Phoenix. Huntsville, Alabama. We've seen Albuquerque really do well places like Las Vegas to a spectrum of cities, but what they've gotten common is more space often lower cost of labor and in many cases fewer building restrictions as well. You know, to ping Phoenix struck me because I went there a couple of months ago and I saw that enormous semiconductor factory that the Taiwanese company TSMC is building curious what industries are moving out to sun belt cities. Yeah, that's absolutely part of it with the Biden administration's emphasis on trying to push domestic manufacturing. We are seeing certain industries, whether it's semiconductor to battery production, a lot of those industries bulking up production in cities across the sun belt and Phoenix certainly you know would be among some of the beneficiaries. What we're seeing is really just with the rise of remote work that's enabled a lot of workers obviously to pick up and move and in other cases companies to expand their footprints in some of these other areas. If you look at the companies that have been relocating their headquarters in recent years tech really tops the list and we do see a number of tech companies moving self or moving farther east and trying to find a base where they can operate. So as with lower costs sometimes with a feeling of an easier business environment and also a number of companies saying that when they are looking to set up maybe a broader footprint elsewhere thinking to about sustainability and how to find a place where they can grow and continue to expand and have sort of the talent pool with the depth that they need to continue to recruit and to grow in the coming years. So that brings us in a way to the cities that are now losing out on new jobs. What are some of the cities that are experiencing people leaving now for jobs elsewhere and why? When we look at the cities that have been seeing a lump in jobs growth and specifically I'm looking now at a list of the top cities or metro areas that have seen declines and job postings. We're really looking at some of kind of the traditional superstar cities. If you look at San Francisco Bay Area it's seen about a 25% drop in the percentage of job posting since 2020 that's according to data from indeed other cities up there also include areas around Seattle San Jose and so we're seeing quite clearly here a lot of the influence of tech layoffs and that kind of downturn. Also just more broadly cities that have traditionally been home to a lot of knowledge workers that have more recently obviously been able to work elsewhere and often in cheaper areas and so it's sort of a combination of both workers in some instances leaving and in other cases their employers choosing to move to as we just talked about. What does all this mean for those big cities like San Francisco that once drove jobs growth? One thing that's really striking in the reporting and in what economists have to say about some of these statistics is just that when we think about the way that growth in the US especially in a lot of innovation sectors has taken place over the past decade in the states. It's been often a really lopsided kind of growth concentrated in some of those cities like San Francisco which obviously has benefits of course but also pretty substantive drawbacks not only for the cities themselves which have often struggled with issues of affordability quite clearly but for the rest of the country too right it's not necessarily the healthiest of things to have a handful of metros really commanding the lion's share of growth. And so there's a lot of hope embodied in some of these figures when you do see the shift in both job opportunities going south and also some of the flattening of the pay bans nationally I mean these all speak to an economy in the US that potentially looks a lot more distributed and potentially also can both help some of the areas that have traditionally really been dealing with some of the benefits. But also the challenges of growth and also help a lot of places in the United States that have more traditionally been left behind that's our workplace reporter to ping chin. Apple has reversed a ban on epic games that have prevented the video game maker from building its own app store in Europe. The two have been battling for years over Apple's control over third party software on its devices today's reversal signals Apple could be softening at stance as it faces new regulations in the European Union according to people familiar with the matter the US justice department is expected to file an antitrust lawsuit in the coming weeks accusing Apple of monopolistic practices related to its interactions with outside companies. And the US military says it will resume flights of the V-22 Osprey aircraft hundreds of Ospreys were grounded in December following a fatal crash off the coast of Japan that killed eight US service members. The $90 million aircraft is a workhorse for the US military but it's been involved in accidents that have killed dozens of US service members leading to concerns over its safety and design. The US Navy said today the grounding was lifted after a thorough safety review and maintenance and procedural changes. And finally this Sunday the film world is coming together for the Academy Awards. So what a moviegoers think about the Oscar nominations. Well the Wall Street Journal and the data intelligence company morning consult pulled more than 4,400 adults in the US to find out. Here's our entertainment reporter John Jürgensen. The other inheimer was the story of Hollywood last year. And behind those movies did something like more than 2 billion at the worldwide box office which was just bananas. Barbie was by far the biggest box office draw but people really kind of gravitate to Oppenheimer as quote unquote high quality film and Oscar worthy film. In our poll it ranked number one almost across the board in terms of its quality level what people thought was a high quality film. And it was the one that people seemed to say was the most enjoyable as well. Obviously Barbie we found not only at the box office but in our poll results was the most scene of all the films. And people really rally behind Margot Robbie too as an actress in our poll. But I think they all see it as kind of a pop film and they seem to be aligned with Oscar voters and thinking that Oppenheimer is the one that's kind of deserving of the Oscar gold. I only saw one of those block fosters it was Barbie and I loved it and I am definitely looking forward to Ryan Gosling performing I'm just Ken on Oscars night. And that's what's news for this week. Today's show was produced by Pierre Bienname and Anthony Vancey. What's news is hosted by me and Marie for Tolly and Luke Forgis. Additional support this week from Tali Arbel, Julie Chang and Cordelia James. Michael Laval wrote our theme music. Our supervising producers are Sandra Kylhoff and Michael Kusmedi's. Aisha Almuslim is our development producer. Scott Saloway and Chris Sinsley are our deputy editors. And Philana Patterson is the Wall Street Journal's head of news audio. Tomorrow you can look out for our weekly markets wrap up what's news and markets. And if you're in a US state that observes daylight saving time don't forget to set your clocks one hour ahead. Before Sunday morning when we'll be answering your questions about the streaming wars and the battle for your subscriptions in what's news Sunday. We'll be back with our regular show on Monday morning. Thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.