 I'm Charles Payne. I'm Martha McCallum. I'm Greg Jarrett and this is the Fox News rundown. Friday, March 15th, 2024. I'm Chris Foster. 2020 now, 2024. And again, Biden versus Trump. And if the vote were held today at the polls are right, Trump wins this time barely. There is a segment of Trump voters that says if he's convicted on a felony charge, I may rethink my vote. And in something this close, that could actually make the difference. We're speaking with Fox News Sunday, host Shana Brein. Elisabeth E is a mental health crisis pushing parents away from parenting. Our default must be with kids. You're going to be just fine because if they hear that, they're much more likely to realize it's true and they're much more likely to develop the internal resources to make it true. And I'm Olivia Crochuk. I've got the final word on the Fox news rundown. There's Republican caucus in the Northern Mariana Islands today, Guam tomorrow, and primaries for both parties in Arizona, Florida, Illinois, Kansas and Ohio on Tuesday. Well, those people can vote for whoever they want. President Biden and former President Trump already have enough delegates to be nominated at their party's conventions this summer. Trump put out a video on truth social after going over the top Tuesday night. Now we have to get back to work because we have the worst president in the history of our country. His name is Joe Biden. There's a time Florida governor, Ron DeSantis was ahead over close to Trump and Republican primary polls. Then he and everyone else went away only Nikki Haley hung on through Super Tuesday. It is the legal trouble that it seems like helped seal the deal for President Trump. And he rightly predicted that it was going to help him. Fox News Sunday and living the green podcast host Shana Brein. Would it forced everyone of his opponents to do was to run to his defense every time there was a new round of charges that were leveled. So it really was been kind of impossible primary situation for everybody but President Donald Trump. 234 days to election day. Lock and happen. At the moment, it looks like a very close race again with former president. If you just go by the current polling, it looks like former president Trump, if you go state by state, it looks like he wins a very close race in the electoral college, maybe by ten or so votes. But again, I don't know what that means at this point, but it's interesting. It is. And what's also interesting is as much as we love to dig inside the numbers, there is a segment of Trump voters that says if he's convicted on a felony charge, I may rethink my vote. And in something this close, that could actually make the difference. Now, whether any of these trials gets that far gets to a conviction in a central proven guilty, maybe he's never convicted on any of these charges, but that's a real political liability for him at this point. So for now, all the political gambles are paying off. His rallies are huge. His turning out, they see these not only as prosecutions, but persecutions. So it's working at this point for him. He's one delays in the cases he needs to win delays in. There are more to come. It's just such a tightrope act that he's walking, but he could walk it right back to the White House. How's the money, you know, President Biden has raised a bit more money than former president Trump? Where is he there? Is the deficit enough to make a difference, do you think? Well, they're starting to be chatter that it could be. You know, there are questions about now that he's officially the guy. There's been this whole shake up at the RNC. His daughter-in-law is one of the co-chairs now, Laura Trump. And she, as an individual, is a very sharp smart person. She's a great advocate for him. But the fact that his family is now in some sense running the RNC, there are questions about whether it can pull together the money to also continue as PACs are helping him and others, try to get across the finish line because so much money has been spent on legal fees. And now when you're getting into a general election where President Biden hasn't really had to spend a lot of money on anything. He hasn't had really serious primary challengers. And they are excited. They feel like their coffers are full that they're going to outspend. Trump everywhere they need to. And the president himself is out there in these swing states trying to get it done on the ground too. I suspect that you may see a somewhat nast year attack from the Biden campaign this time around. Not that they didn't, we know that they weren't completely on the attack on the attack in 2020. But I wonder if it's going to get more personal. Where you're going to see videos of Trump stumbling and bumbling over his words every now and then forgetting his words now and then trying to draw it trying to just compare like, hey, you're talking about me. Let's look at this guy too. I do think it's beyond political differences. I think it is very personal for these guys. The president does not love that Hunter has been drawn into a lot of things. He's very defensive of his son. I think he directly blames Trump for that. And so these guys have a lot of personal heat and venom between them. And I do think you're right that these campaigns. And because they have such a long general election campaign period, I think that there's just going to be more and more time for this to get uglier. And everyone's going to be way more bruised by the time we get to the finish line in November. I turned into the Capitol. Colorado House Republican Ken Buck says not only is he going to just retire. He's not even going to finish his term. He's going to quit by the end of next week. That makes their Republican majority even that much smaller. They can now only lose two votes if everything goes party line from now on. As if the speaker did not need more headaches. I mean, trying to hurt the cats is always difficult. But when you only have a couple cats that are in play every single time. And you've got a larger number of cats who don't like anything that you're doing, even though you're in the same party, really difficult. I mean, the Democrats had to do this with the progressives, with the squad trying to keep everybody on the same page is really tough. And so you've got factions, of course, within the Republican party who are demanding that when it comes to spending in the border and everything that Republicans are rolling over if they don't get everything they demand. But when you only have a two vote leeway, it is really difficult. There is chatter that more resignations could be coming. Is it possible that enough Republicans that it won't take many enough Republicans are sick of their jobs that could that they would actually allow their party to become the minority in the house? I think there's enough of loyalty to the party that you don't lose a couple more and wind up in the minority. It also gives them enormous power to try to extract things from the speaker from others in leadership when they're unhappy. So really tough problems for the GOP all the way around. But I don't see them giving up seats that would leave them with nothing to cling to that the GOP controls in Washington. There's a special election for in New York for a seat that was occupied by Brian Higgins, a Democrat. Now that's April 30th. If Democrats regain that seat or take another Democrat wins that seat, then it becomes even smaller than it becomes 218 to 214. That could hold until this special election for Buckeye comes up in June. There's some intrigue there explaining the whole Lauren Bobert situation. She's not happy. I mean, there are so many nightmares in New York. Republicans and she has been a firebrand and she has had plenty of controversy and the voters out there seemed not as enamored of her the last time around when she had to run again. So all of the timing of this and Buckeye leaving and her district changing creates all kinds of new headaches for the GOP. So can they pull it together and keep it together through the summer? Now none of us think they're going to get major legislation done, but they do have to get things done like funding for Israel funding for Ukraine. They have to make decisions on those fronts they're not going to get a big immigration bill done no matter what happens with these special elections, but they do have other stuff that got to get across the finish lines, including those appropriations bills too. Robert F. Kennedy Jr. back in the news this week running as an independent. Now he was a Democrat. He is a Democrat, but he's running as independent. There's talk of him choosing New York Jets quarterback Aaron Rogers as a running mate. Now at first, wow, that seems weird. But then you think about it. Why not? I mean, they're both famous guys. They're both sort of politically offset it with some provocative views. It might be a good match. It might be. And you know, if RFK Jr. alone, the Kennedy name wasn't enough star power for you, you bring somebody in like Aaron Rogers who again, very controversial people love or hate him. And I got to say when I watched, but you know, they did the preseason hard knocks thing with whatever with the NFL teams. And I watched Aaron Rogers. I was like, huh, this guy is more likeable than he's been portrayed in the media. Now I think most mainstream media hates most of his positions. And you know, I'm not defending any of them. And I don't know all of them. But he has a certain following that is really into him. And it would definitely generate star power for the ticket. But the question is, does it become too much of a gimmick? I don't know. We got a couple weeks to wait and find out. I should have the TikTok vote to ban it in the house if it's not sold by his Chinese ownership was not close. 352 to 65. I wonder if this classified briefing the other day, the day before the vote can convince more people that TikTok is a national security threat. Well, think about it coming out of committee 50 to nothing with this fully bipartisan vote. Like nothing gets out of committee 50 to nothing, even like naming a post office. I feel like you got 49 to one. Like there's somebody. So there is very serious alignment on this. But you do have critics pushing back, including on both sides of the aisle who have real questions about the longer term implications of the government getting to make decisions about which social media platforms do and don't survive. I mean, those are real questions the far left and far right have. But the fact that this thing is barreling to the house floor gets through there. And it's interesting to me that President Trump, you know, he gets credit or blame however you look at it for killing the Senate deal that was coming together on the border. But it's interesting that most people don't seem to be listening to him on this TikTok thing. The people who have had to vote on it so far are convinced there's got to be that divestiture. Now that you got to be in the the app, but there's got to be that divestiture regardless of what President Trump is saying publicly. I mean, the people behind TikTok have long denied that we're a tool the Chinese government party. They've said we've never shared user data from Americans with Chinese authorities. And if they asked us, we wouldn't do it. But there are plenty of people who say that well, yeah, you're full of it. And that there is evidence that you've, well, and isn't it, and I'm no Chinese law expert, but this is the argument I always hear is that by law these Chinese companies do have to share their data. They cannot block it from the Chinese government. If that is the case, then bite dance who owns TikTok cannot make that argument. So they may say, oh, it's stored in a different place and the Chinese government can't get to it. But my understanding is by law Chinese government, the Chinese government has to have access to it. Now if bite dance can show that's not true. That's an inaccurate report. Here's how we siphon and silo the information. So it never gets to them. Whatever arguments they've made on that so far have not convinced the people who've seen the classified briefings on this. Any sense of where the sentence is going to go with it. If it all even come up soon or if there's momentum for a vote for against or not of Odal, we'll say, but I've had senators from the left and the right, GOP, Democrat, on the show numerous times to say, we are committed to getting this done in a bipartisan way. You've got Senator Warner out there cheering in the intelligence committee and working with Rubio as the ranking member. I have had a number of senators telling me we're doing this. Now whether they really mean it because it's sort of like the house has given them this vehicle like, okay, do you mean it now? Sort of like when the GOP said we're going to repeal Obamacare and then when they got the chance, they didn't, we'll see because the Senate is now on deck and they've been given a vehicle to get it done this time. The show is Fox News Sunday. You can also hear Shannon on the live in the green podcast, Shannon Breene. Good to talk to you. Thanks. Chris, great stuff to you. This is Olivia Crochek with your Fox News commentary coming up. I found a lot of ways around rules and versus learning how to be an empathetic person and think about consequences. I just became a really good liar and really sneaky. She says she wanted a different relationship with her children, but Lewis Hunter, who also spoke to Fox26 Houston, says he's controlling with his two sons and that parenting is a dictatorship. Parents like their parents are wagging the tail. Dr. Reena B Patel, a parenting expert and positive psychologist is concerned about parents burning out, telling Fox 11 and LA, realize that when kids are watching you, they're also seeing that it's okay not to be superhuman because we don't want that perfectionistic child either. We want them to know that it's okay to make mistakes. The National Institutes of Health says nearly one in five children, ages three to 17 in the US, having mental, emotional, developmental or behavioral disorder. That 2022 report, also finding a more than 40% jump in suicidal behaviors among high school students in the decade before 2019, trends that only got worse during the pandemic. This also means more kids receiving treatment for disorders. We've addressed some of these serious issues many times on this podcast. Today, we had a different perspective to the mix as some parents try to navigate very challenging times with a more gentle approach to raising kids. Gentle parenting has been a fad now for at least 20 years and it's the therapeutic approach to parenting where kids' feelings are always front and center. Abigail Shryer is an independent journalist and author of bad therapy. Why the kids aren't growing up and you're always soliciting a child's feelings, considering their feelings and the parent avoids all punishment, tries never to say no and instead tries to coax a child along through a series of options and consideration of how they're really feeling. I don't think it's particularly helpful, but if you go on the parenting chat sites where people have tried this and the kids get more and more and more violent, it'd be hilarious if it weren't also a little tragic. Some people from older generations say we're definitely too soft on kids now. Others say some adjustments were needed that parents were too heavy-handed in the past. Have we just gone too far in the other direction? There's actually incredible research on this going back to the 1950s. It's put out by a woman named Diana Bommer and they have repeated her studies over and over. These are very replicated studies. They're very sturdy psychological studies finding that parents who are authoritative but loving have clear rules but are loving. Their kids have the lowest rates of anxiety, least depression, they're happiest and they are most connected to their parents. In terms of they feel a lot of love for their parents and tend to be pretty successful. That is actually what the research shows. What's popular? What's popular is very different. What's popular is to say that all punishment is cruel, that high expectations are too demanding and that all of it is authoritarian and somehow backwards and causing children emotional trauma. It's not true, it hasn't been true and unfortunately it's not helpful that we're putting this really untrue message into the parents' undermine their confidence. My grandmother used to always say discipline is love and I mean there are varying degrees of discipline obviously but that seems to go along the lines of what that research is saying. How has parenting changed over the generations and how much of that has to do with life in general changing? Both parents having to work for instance. I really think our attitudes changed largely because we decided Gen X went into therapy in greater numbers than previous generations and they liked therapy for themselves and they started worrying that they had had emotional trauma of various kinds and they became determined to make sure their kid never had any distress and that's what we're seeing. We're seeing this dramatic over correction in which kids are tried to keep in this happy state. We're trying to keep them in a permanently happy state at all times and these kids have now grown up. They have almost no ability to get past any discomfort and they're always considering their feelings and it's making them miserable. I know in the course of your own research and in writing your book at therapy you've spoken to many families, kids, therapists. Your book raises a lot of questions about how kids are being diagnosed and treated. Are you skeptical of the basic premise that there's a youth mental health crisis or just about the way it's being handled? It's a great question. So there are basically two crises going on at the same time that we might be talking about. One is the very real crisis on our streets. We have an underserved under-treated population. There's no doubt and some of them are very young but they absolutely need serious mental health care and we have also kids with things like severe anorexia who absolutely require treatment. But then there's the larger cohort and they're getting the vast majority of our resources. These are bummed out kids. These are warriors. These are kids who are a little to one side of the general spectrum of humanity. They're not enough to actually have a serious disorder but nonetheless they're getting flooded with diagnosis and treatment and it's counterproductive. It's making them sick. What's your advice then to parents trying to make the right call on who to ask and what to do? Especially when it isn't an obvious case of a child who's suicidal for instance. Right. So number one parents need authority because they won't be able to make any of the changes in their kids' lives until they have comfortable exerting their own authority in the home which doesn't mean being cruel or unloving. It just means I'm in charge and I know what's best for you. Then they need to go in and subtract all the things that are making kids miserable like the too much social media like the constant neurotic monitoring we're doing of their every move never giving them independence never giving them chores. Kids need to feel competent in the world right now they don't feel they can make a difference in the world and they were not giving them skills. They need to take risks. They need dangerous play. It makes them stronger and more confident that they know what they can handle. A walk home from school or from the school bus. Those things are really good for kids. It makes them feel competent. It makes them feel that they can handle a certain amount of danger and they need extended family. People who love them and they love back over time not hired monitors. You know the supervisors hired by mom the coaches who are there because they're being paid. I mean people who love them and they love back over time that's so good for kids. Another thing is telling them with their own parents and grandparents made it through. They need to know that they come from strong stuff so that when they face adversity I want them to think I can get through this because here's what my grandparents went through. I have to back up for one second though to the phrase dangerous play in case anyone doesn't know what that means. Yeah sure. What that means is don't run to stop them from climbing on a boulder because they might scrape a knee. What that means is teach them how to use sharp knives and let them do it. What that means is let them walk home from the bus. I'm not I'm talking about anything terribly dangerous. I don't say to have them play in traffic but they need to be competent in the world. If you never give them a sharp knife to handle. If you never teach them how to cook. If you never teach them how to do for themselves they're going to feel like they're acting. I mean I call it a veal calf life. They're terrified of the world outside the cage so they never want to leave the cage. Social media isn't only tough for kids to navigate in terms of challenges. It can be tough for parents too. Difficult moments perhaps taken out of context can be recorded and go viral. What effect is that kind of public scrutiny maybe having on parenting as well? You know I love that question because of all the things that kids were we that we all evolved to handle. We didn't evolve to handle the dangers of social media. No none of us is is has adapted to being humiliated by a million people. Okay. So I think it's easy. That's a case of subtraction and we've known it and parents have known this for years what they haven't gotten is support. We have known for the last eight years at least in Jonathan height and Gene Twangy first raised the alarm sounded the alarm about this that social media is not good for kids. We need to get it out of the schools. We need to get it out of their lives. And I think you know that's that's almost a no brainer. It's so important. Is there any chance that gentle parenting or at least some of it is a facade that's happening you know and maybe parents are a little bit harder at home than they are in public in terms of being more authoritative at home. I don't think so because parents when they report say I try I mean that you read any of these or you interview you talk to gentle parents but also you interview them. They often tell you I tried really hard never to say no but I think here's where I think you're right. I think because it's such a disaster and doesn't work then you have parents who lose their tempers with the kids. And that's the worst case of all sending a child calmly to his room because he has just hit his little sister. Okay. Is not cruel but when you get to the point where you have lost your mind because the child's getting more and more violent and aggressive and disobedient well that's not a good place from which to make a decision about you know what what the kids you know punishment or consequence should be. What happens when you do get to that point if you get to that kind of worst case scenario it is that a more appropriate time to seek some outside intervention. I trust people who have raised good kids to adulthood. Not the so-called experts we never know you know very rarely do these parenting experts show you the people that they have raised with all their wonderful skills and tactics. But ask adults they're all around us who have raised good adults to people to adulthood load bearing walls in our society. People you can depend upon to show up for work not claim they need a mental health day off. People who are solid spouses and parents you know anyone who has raised a good adult I'd ask them for advice but but these parenting experts I'd really keep away. Is there a one size fits all type of model for parenting experts you know guidelines that that various experts do agree on along with people who've raised good kids you know sort of a common denominator here and what determines whether a parenting trend you know sticks or not. So what determines in the if a parenting trend sticks it seems to be social media but what actually is good for kids authority is really good for them independence focus on things outside of themselves feeling part of something greater feeling part of community of people who love you and love you back all that stuff is wonderful for kids it's not a series of hacks and tricks and it doesn't put the kids feelings center always and that's the key it's not that you never consider of child's feelings of course or you never consider that a child might actually need an intervention a psychological intervention or even a medication it's that it shouldn't be our default our default must be with kids you're going to be just fine because if they hear that they're much more likely to realize it's true and they're much more likely to develop the internal resources to make it true. Abigail Shryer independent journalist and author of bad therapy why the kids aren't growing up thank you very much for your time oh it's a pleasure thank you and now some good news with Tanya J powers staff members at the Richmond Wildlife Center in Virginia are going above and beyond to feed in care for an orphaned baby red fox that found her way into their care they want to make sure the kit can be reintroduced into the wild someday and doesn't become imprinted upon humans so they're doing their best to act like mother foxes in a video posted to the center's Facebook page executive director Melissa Stanley is shown wearing a red fox mask and rubber gloves while feeding the kit from a syringe the kit sits on top of a large stuffed animal fox that's supposed to look like her mother the post explains that they're also minimizing human sounds creating visual barriers and taking other precautions the kit was less than 24 hours old when she was brought to the center and late February after a man walking his dog found her in an alley in Richmond he thought she was a kitten while life center staff looked for the kids mother but when they found the den site the other foxes had been trapped and removed so the staff have been taking turns feeding the kit every two to four hours all while wearing the fox mask the fox kit will eventually be transferred to the animal education and rescue organization in northern Virginia which has three other kits of similar age and weight they plan to eventually release them all into the wild together taunia jay powers fox news what's on your mind marches women's history month and women are at risk of becoming just that history the most radical voices are pushing to erase women and many of these bullies hold enormous power to force us all to conform i know this firsthand as a student at the university of Cincinnati my gender studies class professor gave me a failing grade on a project proposal for using the term biological woman who knew that stating the truth is unacceptable in today's institutions of higher learning places that once dedicated themselves to discovering the truth our education system is not to suppress the truth it is intentionally and actively attacking it this isn't speculation in an interview with the Cincinnati enquire professor Melanie rose nipper admitted that she had been using her position of authority to four students to conform to her progressive views for years miss using one's power is a textbook definition of a bully professional should be teaching the truth not defining it nipper called my words exclusionary and contributing to heteronormativity that might be true and we can debate it as we showed on a college campus but not while banning a truth men and women are biologically different this assault on truth is bigger and stronger than individual professors using their classrooms as bully poprits young people are hostage to the college degree system that makes or breaks the course of our lives earnings potential opportunities and types of jobs were captive to it and forced to participate and pay for these degrees which is why the progressive left installed diversity equity and inclusion courses as graduation requirements that is how a chemistry major like me ended up in a gender studies class de is a vehicle by which the bullies are trying to make women's history and make our existence no more than a feeling the de i concept is a shameless abuse of power and an unsteakable indoctrination system the fact that i applied scientific concepts and was punished for it is clear evidence and yet the de i virus has infected schools across the country the university of michigan the linova university drake university and the university of california system are just on short list people who oppose this movement have been canceled penalized and attacked i refuse to be silenced despite the power nipper had over my future after my story went public i received a message on social media from a former university of Cincinnati student informing me that the exact same thing happened to him in 2007 that's why i joined by the gains in her mission to encourage all americans to speak louder as an ambassador for the rye the gains center at leadership institute i've had the privilege to speak with students across the country to share my experiences and to encourage them to speak out against injustices related to de i on their own college campuses every single one of us must speak up for a rye as women to exist or we will all be completely erased women are in a new phase of feminism the right to be acknowledged for what we are the assault on our existence is powerful and real my message for this women's history month is this don't give an inch this is a livea quote check an ambassador for the leadership institute rye the gains center you've been listening to the fox news rundown and now stay up to date by subscribing to this podcast at foxnewspotcasts.com listen ad free on foxnewspotcasts plus on apple podcast and prime members can listen to the show ad free on amazon music and for up to the minute news go to foxnews.com from the foxnewspotcasts network i'm ben dominich foxnews contributor and editor of the transom.com daily newsletter and i'm inviting you to join a conversation every week it's the ben dominich podcast subscribe and listen now by going to foxnewspotcasts.com