 This episode is brought to you by Kia's first three-roll, all-electric SUV, the Kia EV9, with available all-wheel drive and seating for up to seven adults, with zero to 60 speed that thrills you one minute and available lounge seats that unwind you the next. Visit Kia.com slash EV9 to learn more. Ask your Kia dealer for availability. No system, no matter how advanced, can compensate for all driver error and or driving conditions, always drive safely. Sunday, March 17th, 2024, I'm Jared Halper. Sell or else, Congress takes a first step to block TikTok in the US. Obviously TikTok is very valuable and I believe that there will be a number of people and entities that would be interested in purchasing TikTok. The rematch is official, President Biden, former President Trump clinched the delegates they need for renomination. You need to mobilize even more voters because your margins amongst that constituency are down, and that presents a real problem I think for the Biden campaign. This is the Fox News rundown from Washington. Politics can make for strange bedfellows. Take for example the vote this week in the US House on a bill to force the sale of TikTok or the current Chinese owners facing a ban of the app in the US. Supporters include President Biden, Florida Republican Marco Rubio, former speaker Nancy Pelosi, current House speaker Mike Johnson, just to name a few. In total, the House passed that bill 352 to 65. Opponents included Georgia Republican Marjorie Taylor Greene and New York Democrat Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, former President Trump, who in office attempted the block TikTok also urged opposition to the bill, arguing it could expand the reach of meta properties like Facebook. Now the bill still needs to clear the Senate, and that is not a done deal. No vote is set. And Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer was non-committal in a statement following the House vote. In the meantime, prospective buyers are considering a sale. Former Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin says he's putting together investors to potentially purchase TikTok. Washington, Republican Kathy McMorris Rogers helped usher that TikTok bill through the House. She chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee that unanimously advanced the legislation earlier this month. I asked her about the urgency, the constitutional and free speech concerns, and what other social media regulations she'd like to see. The choice would be TikToks, so they could either choose to continue to operate as is under the control of the Chinese Communist Party because they are owned by bydans, or they could choose to divest separate from bydans and the Chinese Communist Party and continue to operate in the United States of America and businesses and individual users could continue using the app the way that they always have. Would it have to be an American buyer or could it be a French buyer, the Japanese buyer? Is there a specific, like it has to be American? No, not at all. This bill only applies to applications that are subject to the control of specific adversaries that are listed in the bill. And so we list these foreign adversaries as China, Russia, Iran, and North Korea. I saw it in sort of one of the headlines that the former Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin has said that he's trying to put together maybe a group of investors. That would be fine by you. Yes, so what this legislation does, this bill is about banning foreign adversaries, as I just said, so it's about banning foreign adversaries like China, Iran, Russia, or North Korea from collecting massive amounts of data through these apps. So targeting, surveilling, manipulating American people through apps such as TikTok. And we have concerns about TikTok being owned by bydans that is controlled by the CCP. So if this bill were to pass, TikTok would have to make this choice. And yes, it could be open to Stephen Mnuchin or other buyers in the United States of America. They could decide to take the company public. There would be a whole host of options. And obviously TikTok is very valuable. And I believe that there will be a number of people and entities that would be interested in purchasing TikTok. Let me ask about those security concerns because TikTok and bydans have said that they do not have this coordination with the CCP. That the government in China does not have the kind of access to this data that you guys fear. Do you have evidence that they're lying about that? TikTok has repeatedly been caught in this lie that it doesn't answer to the Chinese Communist Party, the CCP, through bydans. We know that TikTok has been used to spy on American journalists. And we know that TikTok has been used to surveil American user data. Even last week, when we were voting on the Bill and Committee, that morning, the 177 million users in America on TikTok did not have access to the app that morning until they actually called their representative and voiced their opposition to this Bill. So TikTok had blocked their access to the app. And that's just one example where they have the potential to manipulate people for their own gain. And even internal TikTok employee recordings have revealed, we have quotes where they've said everything is seen in China. And we know that we cannot trust China to safeguard our data, uphold American values of freedom. We know that China surveils on its own citizens. And we cannot allow this cool of the Chinese Communist Party to be used to target, to surveil, to manipulate American people through an app like TikTok. I'm curious about the content side too, because I know that there have been concerns expressed by some TikTok is a platform that can spread misinformation, disinformation, especially worrisome I know in election years. Is that a part of the calculus that you seem to be talking more concerned about what China has access to? Maybe not so much the output. Am I reading that kind of right? Yeah, this Bill is targeting the threat that TikTok poses because the national security threat that TikTok poses because it is owned by bydans that is beholden to the Chinese Communist Party. And the access of 177 million American users on this app, it does not regulate content or get into content at all. How much of this should Congress play a role in? I mean, there's kind of an expectation I would think among most tech, you know, most people online now that you're kind of giving up a level of privacy, giving up a level of data right when you you join these apps. Like I'm a parent, I don't have my kid on TikTok because I share some of the concerns you've talked about. I'll come into visuals in America. Parents aren't capable of making this decision on their own. Well, unfortunately, we do not have a national data privacy security law in place, a standard in place. I have been working on that separately, but companies are collecting enormous amounts of data just every actionable data point. You know, they're collecting it from people's location, those who they're connecting to, other forms of sensitive information. I believe that we need a national data privacy security law in place to protect Americans online and especially our children online that are being targeted today. And that's a separate legislation that we're working on in Congress. This Bill is really unique and targeted towards the threat that having a company like TikTok that is controlled by the Chinese Communist Party having access to all of this information and all this personal data of Americans because the algorithms are hidden to us. We know that they are manipulating this data and it is especially concerning. We have grave concerns about TikTok being owned by a foreign adversary that is controlled by this Chinese Communist Party having this access and what that means to our national security. We've been briefed by our national intelligence agencies. Those are on the front lines and they have impressed upon us that this is a very real threat. The other question that I had and I'm sure you saw it. I think it was a day or two before the vote former president Trump came out. He opposed this bill. He said that he worries that it's going to enhance the reach of meta, Facebook, of Instagram. He's very critical obviously of the ownership of Mark Zuckerberg. Have you spoken to him? Were you surprised by that response? And what is your answer to that type of criticism that this is only going to create a bigger problem with another social media company? President Trump did not say that he opposes what we're doing. Rather, he did express the concerns with big tech at large. I completely share those concerns and that's where I'm committed to continuing to work the reign in big tech. What this bill does is really finish some work that former president Trump started four years ago when he was as president working and seeking to force TikTok to divest, to separate from the Chinese Communist Party via its ownership by by dance. That is what we are attempting to make sure happens with this very narrow specific bill. When you look broadly at social media, I know you're a mother. I don't know if your kids are old enough to be on all of the social media. My son's about to turn 11 so we're kind of entering that world and I'm learning a lot more about it frankly than I knew a couple of months ago. But listen, there are concerns right about the impact that has on mental health, the impact that it has on self-worth. Certainly the spread of maybe dangerous information. Where should Congress kind of begin and end in trying to regulate this field, whether it's TikTok or a company that's US-based like Metta or X? Well, let me start with TikTok and the bill that passed the house and just make very clear that TikTok is different because it is owned by a foreign company. Oh, yeah, certainly. Yeah. So from a data collection point, I see how they're different. But I guess I'm talking more about the other concerns that we hear about social media. Because I know all of these are issues that kind of fall within your jurisdiction in the ENC committee. Yeah, so that bill is very targeted specific to foreign adversaries. Separately, we have been working on legislation that would bring in a national data privacy security law into place. It would protect Americans online or children online. It would prohibit the targeting of our children. That says, and what that legislation does is it limits how much data can be collected to begin with. It gives individuals a right to know what their profile is. It would prohibit the targeting, the collection of your location data, your search, history. Right now, there's just limited amounts of data. You'd collect data. And then how that can be sold. So what the legislation does is put some protections into place for the individual so that if your data, first of all, you know what the profile is. And then if your data is being sold, if it's being transferred, if it's being transferred to other countries, that you would have to be notified. That you would, and if an entity, if a business is collecting more data beyond what they actually need for a specific purpose, then you would have to give permission for them to collect data beyond what they actually need for their business purpose or the relationship that you have with this entity. I think that's an interesting component to this because, especially as it kind of relates to these adversarial countries that you point out in this bill, Russia, China, Iran, North Korea, like they can kind of get at this data through other means, right? I mean, there are like these data brokers and things like that. That's got to be sort of part of sort of the broader issue you're talking about. Yes. In fact, we did the Energy and Commerce Committee also has passed out unanimously bill that would prohibit data brokers from selling our personal data to these foreign adversaries. And that bill will be voting on this week or this next week in the House of Representatives. On this issue, I'll finish with the Senate. Do you think they're going to take this up? I think that there was some, were you surprised that it kind of the non-committal response we've seen this far from the US Senate on this bill? Are you in conversations with Chuck Schumer and others over on the other side of the Capitol building? Yes. Actually, immediately after the bill passed, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, Mark Warner and Senator Marco Rueger issued a statement in support. There's other senators that are also voicing support for the bill and for us taking action. There happens some other bills that have been introduced in the Senate to address apps like TikTok, but we are in active negotiations and I'm hopeful that the Senate will take action very soon on this bill. I wanted to finish with this if I may, only because I know you have announced that you're not running for reelection after quite a while in the House. And I'm just curious, there seems to be kind of a trend of that, right? A lot of your colleagues that have been sort of veteran lawmakers are deciding to retire, do something else. What's behind that? I mean, is it just kind of time that to pass the torch or is Congress not as much fun maybe is it used to be? Well, it's a lot of fun when you're chairing a committee. I can tell you, it's been great fun in such an honor to chair the Energy and Commerce Committee to be able to lead on important legislation like we've been discussing today continuing to work on privacy legislation. Another priority of mine has been price transparency and health care, which we also are working on. For me, it was, it really was time, it's time to go home. I do have young kids. I have pre-young kids, 16, 13, and 10 and just feeling like, you know what, it's time to pass the torch to the next person. It's been an honor and privilege to serve. And I do believe in this institution deeply. It's an amazing institution, the House of Representatives and Congress and such an honor to serve. And there's going to be, there's a lot of people, I think there's 10 that have already announced that they would like to have consideration to take my place in the house. Well, I appreciate you taking this time and explaining this bill, listen, there's a lot of attention on this and a lot of people have questions, so I appreciate you answering ours and always appreciate the time you've given us over the last several years as well, Congressman. Thank you very much. Good to be with you. Thank you. The election more Americans than not say they do not want is the election voters will have. This week, President Biden and former President Trump both secured the delegates needed to become their parties nominees in November. Officially, neither will be re-nominated until the conventions to summer, but for all intents and purposes, the general election is now on with both campaigns laser focused on the candidate they ran against four years ago. Rather you helped me in 2020 and we should make sure he was a loser. He is a loser. And we're going to make sure that happens again, right? They never talk about his competence. He's grossly incompetent. Don't you understand that? The question is whether or not he's going to get to the starting gate. I can only help. You know, challenged him to a debate. If the campaign and the candidate sound familiar, there's a good chance the electoral map, those of us in my profession spend a lot of time looking at, will also be familiar. A handful of states out west and in the southeast and especially the upper Midwest will likely determine if President Biden or former President Trump get a second term. This week, a pair of Fox news polls focused on two of those states, Arizona and Pennsylvania. Former President Trump won both states in 2016. President Biden won both in 2020 in the case of Arizona, only by about 10,000 votes. Is it stands now the former president leads by slim margins in both Arizona and Pennsylvania, four points, 49 to 45 and a head to head rematch in Arizona, two points, 49 to 47 and a head to head rematch in Pennsylvania. Now, this is a good time to offer the caveat I give whenever we talk polling. Poles are not predictive, but they do provide data points and they help shape trends, trends that in several swing states show the former president with advantages at the dawn of this general election. Darren Shaw helps put these polls together for us. He is co-director of the Fox News polling unit and a member of the Fox News decision desk. Yeah, Arizona, as you mentioned, is, I mean, make an argument along with Georgia, I guess, the two kind of critical battleground states from the last election, razor-thin margins. Yes, we have the same candidates and there are largely the same sorts of issues, but there are a couple of interesting changes. The first is Hispanic voters have gone from roughly two to one Democratic in terms of both their party identification and their vote preferences. So 65-35, fall party. Right now, about 55th, and it's a difficult population to survey correctly. We had in our poll for instance, Spanish language interviewers and Spanish instruments for respondents who prefer to answer. In Spanish, we take all sorts of precautions, but it's still tricky. Part of it is that amongst Latinos, levels of engagement are lower and they're less kind of sconst in the party system. They're nominally democratic, but sort of the defining characteristic is the party system has never really spoken to them in a way it has for white and African-American respondents. Right? So that's a shift. Young people, a core part of Biden's coalition in 2020, are kind of iffy towards both candidates. You know, in some both Hispanics and African-Americans and younger voters, I should say, it's not so much that they're sprinting towards the Republicans. It's just that they're kind of traditional alignment with the Democrats seems to be a roting little bit, right? So it's a, I mean, just to kind of follow up on that, it's not a question of whether or not they vote for Trump over Biden. It's a question of whether or not they vote at all. I think it's two things. There's a mobilization question and then there's the margins, which is, you know, African-Americans, what we're seeing in in Pennsylvania, we saw earlier in our Georgia poll and their North Carolina poll as well, which we did last month. You know, what's happening is that Biden's margin is going from 90 to 10, so like an 80 point advantage to something like 70, 25 with, you know, the remainder going to third party candidates. It's not that Trump's going to win African-Americans. I don't even think it's going to win Hispanics, although it's much closer there, but Biden's margins are way down. And so the mobilization problem that comes in because, you know, you need to mobilize even more voters because your margins amongst that constituency are down. And that presents a real problem, I think, for the Biden campaign. The other interesting component in Arizona, and I'm curious if it shows up in polling and kind of the effect that it has on a presidential race is that Senate race. Kirsten Senema, who was a Democrat, turned independent, was going to run as an independent, it was going to be a three way race. She is now not running as an independent, Carrie Lake of pretty divisive figure in Arizona is the Republican nominee. You have Geyago, the Democratic Congressman, also kind of a defensive figure for her a lot of Arizona's running. What role does that Senate race play in kind of turnout in kind of driving people to the polls? Is there kind of a down ballot poll or is this kind of an up ballot poll? How do you see that Senate race playing out in Arizona? I think the presidential race blocks everything out. It's like the totally clips that we've yet. You know, I had a colleague at Maryland University of Maryland, Jim Gimbal, who used the phrase shouting in a crowd in cafeteria. And I think that's what you get by September and October of the presidential election campaign. One interesting feature to we didn't run a Senate race ballot because from a poll source perspective, it's a little difficult prior to the primary. Even though we think we know who the candidate is going to be, but the other candidates get mad at us and the accuses of creating a scene. We don't want that. Yeah, exactly. But we did run a generic House vote in both Arizona and in Pennsylvania. And the idea was, let's explore this possibility that there is a Trump tax, which came about after 2022. In other words, the pro-Maga candidates, the Trump candidates, underachieved compared to party expectations in certain states. George is the most obvious example right with Kim. The governor's level running much stronger than a Herschel-Walker in the Senate. But what we're finding in Arizona and Pennsylvania is that there's a very, very modest discrepancy between the expected vote for Republicans and what Trump is pulling right now. And if that's the case for Trump, I'm interested to see whether the initial polls of Lincoln-Guy-Ego show something similar. Does Kerry Lake underachieved the way that she underachieved by most accounts in 2020, 200 Senate rates? Because right now, it looks like the ultimate mega candidates Trump is running about what you'd expect. Kind of a traditional Republican would get in Arizona, and that's plus four to six. Let's talk about Pennsylvania. Again, a state that Trump won. Trump lost. Biden won. He has his roots and scrant, and he talks about, I think, he has spent more time in the state of Pennsylvania than he has in any other state over the last four years. Still has in this latest poll that you guys put together, Trump up too. Certainly, well within the margins. What does that tell you about how contested Pennsylvania is going to be? And kind of the coalitions that each candidate is going to have to pull and hold together in the commonwealth? Well, first of all, just to you stepped on the headline. Biden's from scrant, gee, I hadn't heard that. He likes to talk about it. He may have mentioned that in past. What's interesting here is it seems to be the case. This is a little true both of Wisconsin and to a lesser extent Michigan, these upper Midwest days, part of Hillary's famous or infamous blue wall. The attic crumbled. Yeah. Right. They crumbled. And the dynamic that we saw in 2016, we saw, it repeated in 2020, but that is less well-educated, white kind of blue-collar voters moving away from the Democrats, towards the Republican candidate. And that held in 2020 was just that traditional democratic constituencies turned out, especially in Pennsylvania, high enough rates to overcome that. So you've got this really interesting fight where the African-American vote has held a little better for Biden and Pennsylvania than it has in other states. So George and North Carolina, for instance. So that's helping Biden. His vote in the urban areas, especially Philadelphia, seems to be holding pretty well. We're showing his advantages amongst suburban women. So these are these collar counties around Philadelphia, like Fox, Montgomery, etc. Biden's doing reasonably well there. And Pennsylvania is the one state where younger voters have not really abandoned by and become more a swing group as they have in some of the other power ground state polls we've run. On the other hand, if you look down and we get a little suspicious about going to subgroups or regional analyses, our poll is 1200 registered voters, but we do have a sufficient number in the Pittsburgh area. So not just Metro Pittsburgh, but the Pittsburgh area, which does include Scranton. And Trump is running surprisingly well out there, better than he did in 2020. In fact, it is overall advantage accrues largely to running well in eastern and western Pennsylvania right now. Now, is that kind of a statistical outliers in Arnhemback? Because I've heard there some interesting articles this week about the Democratic machine in Scranton and about Democratic support in Pittsburgh. But in our poll, we're actually finding that Philadelphia, and especially suburban Philadelphia, remains a critical battleground and that Trump is actually doing less well in the T right now. He's a proper central region of the country relative to what he did in 2020, 2016, then he is in western Pennsylvania. So that's something to keep your eye on. We've seen, I think the campaign almost, the travel kind of tells that story too. You look at, you know, Biden has done I think two or three events already in sort of that mainline area of Philadelphia, right? Those kind of outer suburbs, he was in Blue Bell. He's been in a few of those other areas. The other thing that I was fascinated by in the poll that you did, and I'm glad you did this is you did, obviously these head-to-head matchups, which are important, but also looked at how these results turn out if it's not just head-to-head, especially in a place like Pennsylvania. You include Robert F. Kennedy Jr. in these polls, Jill Stein, Cornell West. You have in Pennsylvania, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. getting 9% of the vote. That's, I mean, it's not quite Ross Perot territory, but that's pretty outstanding for an independent candidate, no? Yeah, this is, I think the Perot parking back. I cut my teeth in the 92 campaign, paying attention in 96 quite a bit, and Perot was in June, 92 was at 40%, with actually leading the planet. I think people forget that he dropped out, that he came back, but Kennedy isn't that high, but from Polster's perspective, we wanted both out here. We're not sure whether Kennedy's time, West are going to qualify in all these battleground states right now. That's the question, right? Yeah, exactly, but they're on track too. As you point out, the interesting thing that comes over here, I think people assume that the Kennedy name will disproportionately draw Democrats to his candidacy. I think it's a mixed bag. I mean, you listen to his policies the way that he is appealing to a lot of base Trump voters, no? Yes, that's exactly, I think that's exactly right. He's got this populist anti-big pharma, anti-establishment appeal that really resonates with Blue Kyle. It's funny. You think back to the original Bobby Kennedy, and who he appealed to, and a lot of these lower status whites as well as racial and ethnic minorities, right? And the same sort of things that Kennedy talked about in a slightly different context is what R.F.K. Jr. is talking about. And so it, it Pennsylvania, it's a modest effect, but it goes from plus two Trump and just a head to head to even with Ken. 42, 42. Yeah, and I think that is almost entirely driven by the fact that he's peeling away some of these blue-collar white voters who kind of had it. They think the system is rigged. Kennedy speaks to them kind of the same way Trump does. It will work differently in different parts of the country, I think, but in Pennsylvania, it would not shock me if Kennedy ends up marginally hurting Trump, but marginally is enough to swing a race right now. Well, especially, and so I guess you kind of answered the question. I was going to say if you're the Trump campaign or the Biden campaign, who's more worried about kind of, you know, Kennedy getting on, he is not, he needs to get on the ballots, and that is not an easy task to do, but assuming that he does, who is more worried about that? Oh, it's a good question, you know, I got to say RFK is, you know, if you follow this campaign, for instance, I listened to a four-hour podcast with RFK and Joe Rogan, and I came away from, yeah, I was a trip from Austin to Dallas, Seema to Ice, but other, it was an interesting trip. I've made that drive many times. Yeah, pretty interesting. And I came away from that thinking that, first of all, these long-form interviews are really good for RFK. Yeah, you know, he does well. So when he has a chance to kind of really get ramped up, I don't think either of these main party, major party candidates wants him anywhere near debate. It's not clear to me they want to debate each other, and they certainly don't want Kennedy in the mix. I think his natural appeal right now, given the coalitional shifts in the parties over the last eight years, I think his natural appeal may ironically be a little more Trump-y than his democratic. On the other hand, I think it's a really marginal tendency, and the other two candidates in the race, West and Stein. That's bad news for Biden, right? They're unequivocally... I mean, because you saw what happened with these sort of uncommitted voters in the Democratic primary, and listen, I don't know if that translates to a general election, but it shows that there is a level of discontent, especially among progressives, and if there are other choices, they may pull deliver for those choices. Exactly, and we talked about younger voters, voters under 30-year-old age, who do not have the same kind of history to tackle with the major parties. And if they're animated by issues like abortion-like... The warrens. The warrens. The mosque conflict. Yeah, Gaza. Then why wouldn't Stein or West be appealing to them? You know, it'll be interesting. I remember in 2000 when the Gore campaign spent one of the last weeks of the campaign. They went hard after Ralph Nader. Guy, remember, yeah. Get a watch in the Sunday morning, says, and Gore went in, and I remember thinking, well, they're giving Nader a lot of attention. Is this really a good move? And turned out it was a very smart move. I mean, they basically collapsed Nader's support. I think he went from five or six percent to about two. And I wouldn't be surprised if you see a similar move kind of deep into September or October, which is if these three candidates, especially RFK, continue to draw, I wouldn't be surprised if you don't see a concerted effort to delegitimize those candidates. He's by the major party candidates. That's a high-risk strategy, right? Giving them oxygen, giving them attention, and especially when, you know, in Nader's case, the appeal was almost exclusively to Democrats. But in the case of Kennedy, in particular, I think, I'm not sure if I go after him, if I'm Biden or Trump, and I go after him, it kind of make him a vehicle for the other side. I mean, you might counter-mobilize, right? So it's a very tricky calculus. Yeah. I mean, I'll just finish with this. It is the middle of March, and we are in a general election mode. What is the level of fatigue that you think voters could have come November? I think it could be pretty high. This is the irony, which is that everybody talks incorrectly to read the polling information that nobody really wants these two candidates. That's correct. Strong for it to have a new crop. On the other hand, one of the things we know from political science is that fear and anxiety and anger tend to be more powerful motivators, with respect to turnout, than hope and optimism. Not always, but, and one question is, yes, we're going to be tired of this. Are we really going to learn anything new about Trump or Biden over this endless campaign? On the other hand, I would expect a very high turnout election, because each side sees the other side as presenting an unacceptable alternative. In fact, I mean, that's, on the Democratic side, here's an account of the counter-intuitive notion. I think Democratic turnout and mobilization is largely baked into the cake. I think there's such a anger and fear of Trump. Yeah. Anti-Trump movement is so strong amongst Democratic voters. Right. And then the question then becomes on the right is Trump's appeal to his base, after eight years after he merges on it, seem politically, and is anger and intipity towards Biden sufficient to mobilize Republicans at the same kind of level. Now, I'm saying it's counter-intuitive, because right now Republicans are expressing greater enthusiasm, but they're the out party. And the out party almost always expresses greater enthusiasm. I'll be interested to watch this wax in Wayne, you know, 500 months as we slide towards election. Well, I am excited that it presents an opportunity for you and I to have many more of these chats between now and then. And well, probably a few off-air as well, but Darren, I always appreciate your insight. You guys at the polling unit are going to have just a tremendous amount of work between now and November, and certainly we appreciate all of your efforts on our election nights as well. So, Darren, enjoy whatever break you get between now and then and we'll talk soon. All right. Thank you very much. Take care. That will do it for this edition of the Fox News rundown from Washington podcast. Tomorrow on the Fox News rundown is the impeachment case against President Biden collapsing. I'll souversight committee chairman James Comer will answer that. And Brian Kilme takes a deep dive on NIL, the name, image and likeness rules allowing college athletes to make big bucks. And tell them, thanks for listening. I'm Jared Halper from Washington. Listen to the show ad free on Amazon Music. And for up to the minute news, go to FoxNews.com. The Wilkane show is now dropping five episodes a week, showing Fox and Friends weekend host Wilkane as he tackles the latest headlines from his unique perspective. Along with thought-provoking interviews with leading figures and live calls from viewers and listeners, listen wherever you download your favorite podcasts.