 I'm Jerry Willis. I'm Steve Ducey. I'm Shannon Bream. And this is the Fox News rundown. Monday, March 18th, 2024. I'm my command. Well, House lawmakers are expected to hear from former Hunter Biden business associates this week. But after saying he would testify publicly, President Biden's son now says he does not plan to participate. Leading Republicans say their investigation has uncovered plenty. We've found millions of dollars that the Biden's have taken in from bad people in bad countries. We speak to House Riverside Committee Chairman James Comer. I'm Prisphaster. Starcoa's athletes are paid now for the use of their name and a genlikeness. And chaos has caused, as some people saying I told you so. Do you want a environment where somebody goes to the highest bitter? I know it's the American way to the grid. But should there be some regulation, we can only make so much of my statement Fox is Brian kill me. And I'm Carol Roth. I've got the final word on the Fox News rundown. Many are convinced action must be taken to get a handle on the crisis at our southern border. But President Biden says it's Congress's problem. Mr. President, when is an important executive action coming? An executive action on the border? Coming on the border action happened by itself, the posse. The Congress can come to an agreement. Well, they haven't yet. They haven't yet. It's a pretty fun on how to help them. President Biden's son Hunter was supposed to headline a high profile congressional hearing this week. But Hunter Biden has had second thoughts about appearing on Capitol Hill. Florida Republican Congressman Byron Donald says Hunter should answer questions about Biden family business dealings. We can clearly see that Hunter Biden was the backman that he did take money from CFC that he did text the chairman, chairman Zau sit next to his father back in December, Hunter Biden appeared on Capitol Hill to speak with reporters, but didn't want to go inside to speak to House lawmakers. Republicans do not want an open process where Americans can see their tactics. Expose their baseless inquiry. Or here would I have to say. What are they afraid of? I'm here. I'm ready. The border problem and its impact on border states and many major American cities is likely to be a red hot campaign issue in this year's election. Part of the Biden argument is the country cannot go back to former president Trump being in power. Folks, it's not hyperbole, you see, guess our freedoms are literally on the ballot this November. Donald Trump and the migrant Republicans are trying to take our freedoms away. And by the way, not all Republicans that say his ain't your father's Republican party. These guys are different. Former president Trump and battleground Ohio raised some eyebrows with this comment. I don't get elected. It's going to be a blood bath for the whole. That's going to be the least of it. It's going to be a blood bath for the country. That'll be the least of it. Trump campaign a say Mr. Trump was talking about the economic impact on the auto industry. The stakes are high at the top of the ticket, but also in the house where Republicans are hoping to hold on to their tiny majority. Some suggest Trump on the ballot will help the GOP. When he's on the ticket, the turnout is significantly higher. It's not even close. Chairman of the House Oversight Committee, James Comer. So we always have a dip in turnout when he's not on election, when he's not on the ballot. I think him being on the ballot is a huge positive for us. And I think the Republicans will retain the majority. Mr. Chairman, you're set to lead another hearing this week investigating what you call inconsistencies and testimony in the Hunter Biden investigation. What can we expect from the hearing and who will we hear from? Well, we hope to hear from Hunter Biden. I mean, he said for months he wanted a public hearing. The media attacked me for wanting to do a deposition. And accused me of not wanting to have Hunter Biden testify in public that how he said, after the deposition, we'd have the public hearing. So this is the week for the public hearing. We're going to have three of his former business partners with him. The reason we're going to have those four panelists is because what the three business partners said, Hunter dead and Joe dead is vastly different than what Hunter testified under Oden is deposition about his knowledge and his father's role in their business scheme. So we thought that we would just have a public hearing, let the American people see for themselves and see if they can make a decision on who's telling the truth. Tony Babalinsky has criticized Hunter for not testifying before Congress how pivotal will Bob Balinsky's testimony be to this investigation? Pretty significant. I mean, if you look at all of the people that Hunter Biden was in business with, Tony Babalinsky is the one guy who is never in trouble. He's the one guy who's credible. He's the one guy that's never been indicted or incarcerated that Hunter Biden was in business with. I mean, the media and the Democrats are trying to attack me for some of the people that we've been deposing. They say, oh, they're criminals. Well, it's not a reflection on me. That's a reflection on the Biden. That's who the Biden's wearing business with. Bob Balinsky is the one guy that's clean. And I'm looking forward to hearing from him, because what he says, Hunter and Joe did is vastly different than what Hunter testified under oath. So there's a huge discrepancy. And we just felt like it would be best for the American people to hear with their own ears and see with their own eyes. Hunter Biden's high profile DC attorney, Abby Lowell has called this investigation a carnival side show. What would you say to that in the critics of the investigation? Well, Mr. Lowell has represented Senator Manendez. He's represented Hunter Biden. And he's representing very good. So he's very good and credible at representing people that many in Congress have accused of influence peddling. But at the end of the day, I think this has been a very transparent, very substantive and very credible investigation. Now, he may not like that. The outcome, because he's representing Biden and Manendez are both pretty guilty of a lot of serious crimes, federal crimes. So I just disagree with Abby Lowell. He gets paid a lot of money to get people that break the law out of trouble. And he's got his own opinion. I just disagree with it. If Hunter Biden's a no-show, do you think the public will be able to get a full sense of what went on with Biden-ank business dealings? I think so. I think so. And there would probably be other opportunities. I'll just say this. I fully expect Hunter Biden to testify in a public hearing. He's got enough time to come to this public hearing with his business partners. So I'll leave it at that. If I were Hunter Biden, I would show up for this public hearing that he demanded. And the media, the terrible media, the corrupt mainstream media that has attacked me throughout this investigation for having the audacity to investigate the Biden's and their public corruption, accused me of being afraid to have Hunter Biden in a public hearing. Well, here it is. And the media is completely tibeted. They've completely done a 180. I think, oh, well, he's already testified. He's already testified. No, no, no. He hasn't testified publicly yet. And that's what they wanted. So we'll see what happens. There's two occasions where Hunter was supposed to be in front of our committee. And he didn't come, but he had public signs outside. So I, he, you know, it's not like Hunter Biden has a job or anything. When he's sitting there living off of that Kevin Morris in a $40,000 month apartment, I don't know if he's still got his Kazistaki Porsche that he got when Joe Biden was a vice president, but he'll, Hunter has the means to show up on our date of the hearing. So hopefully he'll be there on a related topic reports suggest that the House Republicans are now looking at passing influence peddling legislation. Give a sense of what that would look like. And do you think it could gain bipartisan support? Absolutely. And if you go back to November 14th of 2022, the midterm elections had just happened. We flipped the house, but I didn't become chairman until January. So at this point in November, the Democrats are still in the majority, but I'm the chairman elect, so to speak. I had a press conference, a 33 minute press conference. I announced the investigation with Jim Jordan, Nancy Mays, Byron Donald, there were a few of my oversight colleagues standing beside me. And I said the object, the objective of this investigation is to get the American people to cruise about what the Biden has done with our adversaries around the world and to pass influence peddling legislation that would prevent this from happening in the future. And since that press conference, we've found millions of dollars that the Biden has taken in from bad people in bad countries. And most of it happened while Joe Biden was vice president. And no one knew that. And the narrative was always two things. So none of the money happened while Joe Biden was vice president. And Hunter Biden is like Jared Kushner. He has a real business. No, Jared Kushner has legitimate assets through this whole investigation. I'm a finance guy. I've never found a legitimate business that Hunter Biden had. This is one of the most serious, if not the most serious crime that any presidential family has ever committed. And I think that despite the awful, partisan weaponized media, I think that we've been successful in getting the truth to American people. And now we're to the point to where it's time for accountability. And that's why I can't emphasize enough the importance of Hunter Biden and his lawyer showing up for that public hearing. Congressman Ken Buck is retiring from the house this week. I don't need to tell you the house majority is slim and shrinking with his departure or how much more difficult does that make the job for House Republicans? Well, my message to Ken Buck is don't let the door hit you in the butt on the way out because he's been that's about an obstacle. So really, he was a pretty consistent vote for the Democrats. It really doesn't affect it any. He was gonna vote no on anything. Although he did vote for the impeachment inquiry and I appreciate that, I told him that. But Buck's disgruntled, unfortunately, I don't think it's anything. We have a lot of disgruntled members in our conflict. There's a lot of animosity over those eight Republicans and Buck was one of them that joined with the Democrats to get rid of McCarthy, which totally disrupted the conference because you had to get new staff. You brought in a speaker, and that's got a good guy, came in with Mike Johnson, but you know, never been in leadership before. And you know, we had to, everybody had to update him on what their committees were doing and it just really set us back. And it caused a lot of hard feelings. And so Buck's been nothing but an Instagram or his whole Congress. I mean, I think, I don't think we'd lose much there, but we have to be unified. And the only unifying vote we've had on any major bill that I can remember in a long time is the vote to go to the impeachment inquiry phase. So despite the media saying that Republican Conference doesn't support this investigation, there's overwhelming support. Everybody in our conference supports the investigation of the Biden-Inflink pedaling and they realize there's some very serious crimes that have been committed by this family. The crisis at the border showing no signs of lighting up. The Biden administration is not taking executive action on the issue. Are you hopeful Congress could take action before the election? I don't see what Congress can do. The president has the authority to secure the border. He has a military. He has the Border Patrol agents. And he says he needs more Border Patrol agents. That's below me. We've been to the border. He hasn't. We've been to the border numerous times for Republican and Conference. The Border Patrol agents say that Biden has changed their job from securing the border to changing dapper and doing paperwork instead of securing the border, the Border Patrol under Joe Biden has become the welcoming agency. And Joe Biden wants all these illegal things. That's the Biden policy. That's the Biden border policy is an open border policy. They want to fundamentally change America. And I think the American people see that. I think that Joe Biden has demonstrated that he wants an open border. We have an immigration crisis because of Joe Biden. He doesn't need a bill to secure the border. That's his job. That's Mayorkas's job to protect the American people. He's the chairman of the House Oversight Committee. Congressman James Comer, thank you so much for your time, busy week ahead. Safe travel, sir. Thank you. I'm Benjamin Hall, Fox News correspondent in New York Times best-selling author. Join me for my brand new podcast, Searching for Heroes. Make sure you subscribe to this series and click on the bell icon. And if you want to see more videos like this, click on the bell icon to get all the latest news news requests. And if you want to see more videos like this, click on the bell icon to get all the latest news requests. And if you want to see more videos like this, click on the bell icon to get all the latest news requests. And if you want to see more videos like this, click on the bell icon to get all the latest news requests. Wherever you download podcasts and leave a rating and review. This is Carol Roth with your Fox News commentary coming up. The men's college basketball tournament starts tomorrow since the Supreme Court ruling in 2021, those athletes have the opportunity to make money licensing the use of their name, image and likeness, for example, and ads and video games. The video game company EA Sports says more than 10,000 players have accepted an offer to appear in an upcoming college football game, getting a minimum of 600 bucks in a copy of the game. So a lot more money to be made than that, though, and star athletes are out there looking for it. For Alabama football coach Nick Sabin tells Fox, it's not why he retired in January, but the NIL system needs to change. I want the quality of life or student athletes to be the best it can be. And I think they should have a seat at the table. And I think they should share in some of the revenue. But I think it needs to be, you know, equal across the board so that a school that kind of forward more can't create an advantage for themselves, just because they have more money to spend. What's happening now has been compared to the Wild West. There's no question. It's chaos. Fundamentally, why do they have it? Brian Kilmead co-host of Fox and Friends and the Brian Kilmead show on Fox News radio. Well, for the longest time, you see 110,000 people at the University of Michigan. And you're saying all those people paid 50, 70, 200, $500, $1,000 for good seats. And the only people not benefiting are the players. And the only people indispensable, you could argue are the players. So something had to change. I get it. I understand it. Stipens, that's it. And Chris, I think you know, with the demands of Division I player, Division I athlete. I don't care if you're swimming lacrosse, non-revenue volleyball, soccer, football, especially, you really don't have your time. You don't have your summer. So you really can't get that side job. You can't get it. You're not doing, you're not a time for a work study job. So they said, OK, what about name and engine likeness? It wasn't a short time ago. Johnny Menzel got suspended. Yeah. Because he went to a autograph show where he signed his name and his picture. So they said, this get ridiculous. Well, I mean, it's a question of fairness. I mean, it's not the school's paying you, but if you want to do a commercial, who's to stop you from doing a commercial? Here's the question. So I go to do a commercial at the University of Texas. I go to Texas and the coach says to me, guys, I thought you want to meet our very successful alumni, some of which have some card dealerships and they own some TV stations. Then you can be a contributor here. I think you can appear in a dealership. So all of a sudden, the University of Texas, it's not because of the majors they offer or the size of their campus. But they're going there because they're getting more money. Do you want a environment where somebody goes to the highest bidder? I know it's the American way to a degree, but should there be some regulation? We can only make so much money. There can only be so much interaction where we know you register. Chris, so you have to go and register your company with a major body that says, this is how much you're gonna give. This is the regulation and this is what you're gonna do. And when you go to sign the quarterback at Georgia, we're gonna write you down. Okay, here's the quarterback. How many are you gonna do? Right, fine. But then the courts just rocked it and said, no, this nothing. And now it's down to the Wild West again. And we saw Nick Sabin, the most successful coach in college football history, say to his wife or his wife said to him, you don't like this anymore. He said at the end of the season in which they lost in the finals, I believe, or semi-finals, he said kids were lined up not to find out what they were gonna do next year. Say coach, if you don't give me more money, I'm transferring. Yeah. I mean, it's almost like it is. It's free agency essentially because now it's become easier for kids to transfer, no sitting out of year. Right, right. Which used to be the rule. How much money do the biggest stars making? How much can I... That's a great question. It's virtually undisclosed. And I'll give you an example, Arch Manning, who is at Texas. I don't think he's taken a snap yet. And he says he wouldn't collect it, but he's got like $5 million in I.L. money. I don't know if they have the ranking, but are you talking about millions of dollars? Now what's good about it? Kind of get to see these guys and these women for four years. So that's remember how we got to know Patrick Ewing and Akima Laiju on on these guys. Because kids stay in school longer because they're going to make money instead of just jumping right to the pros. Right. And kind of good. So now if I'm CBS, and I get to roll out a bunch of players, I kind of know, I remember Bobby Hurley fight four years at Duke. He plays one year, Zion plays one year at Duke. I don't even remember he went to college. So it helps sell that and sell everything. So that I kind of like, kind of wait. So you'll have to people be 21, 22 before they go pro. And just keep in mind, the conversation we're having, most people will not do this for a living. This is their moment. And I think a lot of people can't get their head around. Why can't they just wait to make money? The money's not waiting. They're going into the real world. And if they didn't get a chance to study and get that degree, I don't know what you're gonna go in with. This kind of reminds me of marijuana laws where guys who used to spend time in prison or get kicked out of college or get kicked out of their college program for doing something that's now completely legal. Very similar. Yeah. It's interesting. I call in the government, believe it or not, to Joe Manchin's talked about this, believe it or not, college teammates with Nick Sabin. And they've been working hard on this. If everyone is the same objective, get the kids some money, though this is their moment, but I just think you got an offensive lineman here you go. You know, you're at Alabama fine, but if you're at East Stroudsburg State, Division two, right? You get 4,000 people at your game. So everyone's like, well, where are we giving them? I don't know. I can't write a check to them. I don't need the answer, but they're writing a check, but that's something to think about. Maybe there's fundamental, if I'm a Division one athlete, I am getting $25,000 a year volleyball player, Nebraska. You do sell up in arena at Hofstra. You're not selling in arena. So maybe there is a Division one, Division two, Division three. Well, there's a pool of money and the kids get it. But just to show you how complicated it is, but fixable is Nick Sabin said, you know the money at Alabama? We're basically paying basketball and football, pays for all the other sports. Sure. So just so you know, if I have to pay my players, we're gonna lose sports. And isn't the goal to have us be a student athlete? As I wonder if it's gonna hurt smaller sports, if you're just saying overall booster at the University of Texas, and you're throwing, here's money for the athletic program. Now I'm not gonna give you money for the athletic program, I'm gonna give you money for that kid. Should you? Yeah. I mean, that's it. I want to spying to Orange Manning. I love the family. I love the commercials. This guy's gonna be gold. I love to know that he would show up with my banner in the backdrop. All right, he's not starting. You know, so is that right? You're picking a player. Now as a coach, you're gonna feel pressure to play that. You absolutely have coach of the impression to play. Recruiting was already a big part of the job. And now you've got to recruit high school kids. You're gonna recruit the transfer portal because that's so easy now. And then you're gonna recruit your own kids to stay. Great point. And Chris Rick Patino said that is St. John's. So people don't know, 70 years old to be coaching for 45 years already in the Hall of Fame. He said that some of his best teams at Kentucky and Louisville, my best players didn't play for two years. So they just trained. Now I will lose that kid. Coach, I'm not sitting again. I got somebody else. You know, Eastern Kentucky wants to give me more money and I'll get off the bench. So now as a coach, I might have to sacrifice a game to put that raw rookie with a lot of talent to make him feel more part of it. So he doesn't transfer. So what, like people listening to us right now go, so what, let the coaches adjust? I don't know. I don't know if I want a 17 year old holding up a program, changing substitution patterns. I want a coach putting the best team out there to be most successful out there. So everything's in flux. I can't believe I'm saying this, but I think the only people with the power since the NCAA lost in courts to come in and set this up is the government. Yeah, I mean, people think of crazy stuff. You've got to be torn. I'm sure you're like your fundamentally a free market guy. But I don't know what the guardrails are going to be. Well, I didn't grow up in a college football environment. Where'd you grow up? Not a college football. It's Northeastern, it's the same as you. So not a college football. But BC, Rutgers. But if I go south, they don't even know that they're probably, I mean, they don't have pro teams. So they don't care about the Panthers, nearly as much as Northern South Carolina teams. So, so how many people would go watch Auburn, Alabama if they knew those kids weren't in class? If they knew those kids were mercenaries, just out there playing, they don't care about the Crimson Tide. The reason why they're out there is because they got paid more. And all I could tell you is, the only thing indispensable is the majesty of the league you're playing in. Semipro football gets no one. You watch the USFL, XFL are coming together. They're going to begin to build a legacy, but that does not pay the bills. The thing that pays the bills is looking at Alabama and seeing the black and white leather helmet person from 1930 and seeing how far we've come in 2024 and saying I'm part of that legacy. Instead of I'm a mercenary that came there one year because Nick Savin found a way to get me more money. I don't know. I think you might be blowing up what you love so much. What does this also, I wonder, look, there's always been big schools, medium schools, small schools. I wonder if this makes the big schools bigger, the medium school smaller, and the small schools, of course, just a small. Yeah, I think it was happening with the consolidates here in the conferences and the collapse of the pack 12 now. So when these use USC and UCLA go, yeah, I don't really, California. I really want to stay here. I'm going to go play against the bigger teams, more revenue. But wait a second, coach. I got to go 1700 miles to go travel. I got class on Thursday. I got to go travel there and get there on Saturday. Oh, yeah, forget about class. If you forget about regions now, I want to go to the conference. It's going to get me the most revenue to give me the best shot at a national championship. So the one double A, it's always tough drawing, historically black college. Oh, and let's see on Sanders' coach, he's going to be a new, tough going. But I do think it's going to hurt those second level good schools. And I guess you'd put, you know, Tulane in that category. And again, where does the volleyball player from Eastern Connecticut state come into this? Who isn't making revenue for the school? I guess, oh, well, you're not making revenue for the school. That maybe that's where the free market comes in. Right. We're certain sports and certain divisions and certain conferences get more. You got to go tap into your alumni in order to supply the athletic program in order to get some sponsorship. I remember I played Division II soccer, and we almost had no revenue. The new coach came in after I graduated and said, yeah, forget about no new revenue. I'm going to go sell sponsorships. So we literally went and sold sponsorship and tied him to the fence and the program boomed. So I ask you, even though it might be a smaller school, East Kentucky, East Stroudsburg State, Nova University, over in Florida, there are people that will support it. But you're going to have to go sell it, and you have to be prepared to give the players money. But I like your idea that you brought me into is give categories. One, if you're in those power conferences, here's your offensive lineman. Here's your defensive lineman money. Here's your running back money. And then maybe give them a certain section to go. You got a great personality, great smile. You're the sugar ray Leonard of your class. Right, everybody wants interview. Give them that category. But I just think everything's got to be disclosed. No more under the table. Don't tell me what actually I had. Everything's disclosed. And I do think there's got to be limitations set it up and revisit whatever you come up with. Put it in in two years. Revisit in in five years. Keep the same panel in place. Like Tommy Tuberville is doing all this sports stuff because he's a foreign football coach, who's in government now. But there's a lot of people that would love, like there's a lot of people that would love to play a role in this. They just love this sport, to play by play people. The athletic directors, they're retired especially. No worse in the race. The active people are consultants. The experts from sports casting to former players, to management, athletic department, managers, to former sports executives of Gatorade, of Nike, of Reebok, Under Armor, also playing a role. And just say, how do we figure this out? Everyone should put their hand in and no one should feel as though they've been locked out. With fundamentally giving players what they need to be able to play and go to school. Yeah, I mean, now that the box is open, let's see what this is in five years. If there's no regulation, I hate to see what's going to be left of it. It is going to be... Or see what the regulation is in five years. Right. I just hope that Joe Manchin, before he leaves, he's leading this at a couple of conversations with him. He's passionate about it. And now they just leave and he's really gotten a horse in this race. I know West Virginia, college football, college basketball means a lot there. Brank Hillmead, co-host Fox and Friends, host of the Brank Hillmead Show on the radio, host of One Nation with Brank Hillmead on Fox News Channel, Brian. I don't know how you remember your family's names. Right. I see the pictures of them. All right. Brank Hillmead, thanks, man. Thanks, Chris. Here's a look at the week ahead. Monday, a pair of first amendment arguments are heard by the U.S. Supreme Court, including a lawsuit by the state of Missouri, alleging the federal government colluded with big tech companies to suppress free speech. Tuesday gets your brackets ready. March Madness begins. 68 Division I men's college basketball teams play an essential role in the game. The first two teams are in the game. The first two teams are in the game. 68 Division I men's college basketball teams play in a single elimination tournament leading to the championship game in April. Wednesday, the federal reserve will wrap up a two-day meeting and announce their decision on interest rates. In remarks to Congress, Fed chair Jerome Powell's at the Central Bank would not lower interest rates until inflation goes down. Friday, Congress needs to pass a second set of spending bills in order to prevent a looming partial government shutdown. This final group of funding would go toward the Department of Defense, Health and Human Services and Homeland Security among others. And that's a look at your week ahead. I'm Tom Graham, Fox News. I'm Emily Camponio, host of the Fox True Crime Podcast. Far too often, women's lives are cut short as they fall victim to unthinkable crimes. But each week this month, I'll be joined by women who fought back, survived, and took back control. You won't want to miss this month's stories of survival, strength, and resilience. Listen and download on Apple, Spotify, and FoxNewsPodcast.com. Raiden review the Fox News run down on Apple podcasts or wherever you listen. It's time for your Fox News commentary. Carol wrong. What's on your mind? During his entire tenure, Biden and his mouth pieces have tried to blame just about everything for inflation, except the actual culprits, which include his fiscal policy, alongside damaging fed monetary policy. We were told there would be no inflation, that it would be transitory, that it was good for you and only hurts the rich, that it was consumers fault, that it was businesses fault, that it was Putin's fault, and it was backward looking, among other nonsense, trying to justify the erosion of the middle and working classes purchasing power. Biden has returned to trying to single out corporations as the cause of inflation. When Sesame Street's beloved cookie monster tweeted his own exasperation with inflation and the form of shrinkflation, leading to smaller cookies, yes, even fictional characters are being impacted by it. Biden's team blamed corporate America and greed for this outcome. Biden's talking at a bull's sides of his mouth. When he claims the economy is doing better and the GDP is growing, well, wouldn't that mean the corporations are growing as well? And when he highlights that wages are increasing, that obviously creates higher costs for businesses, that they then pass on to consumers. It's all related and he can't claim economic victory and then chastise the businesses for their growth. Moreover, corporate profits aren't increasing at a material higher rate than during other times. When prices increase, that drives sales growth. Keeping margins constant, more nominal earnings will be had by corporations. Again, downstream outcomes of inflation. According to facts set, Q3 2023 marked the seven the consecutive quarter that the S&P 500 reported lower profit margins. At the same time, Y charts shows lower US corporate profits after tax as a percent of GDP than when Biden took office. And Guru Focus using Bureau of Economic Analysis data shows a shrinking corporate profit margin during the time period inflation was raging under Biden. The idea that corporations just decided to become greedy is always a stupid talking point. If someone is charging too much, another company would come in and sell at a lower price at the same quality to take market share if they could. Also, why would they just become greedy now? Particularly in the last couple of years, as the purchasing power of consumers has dwindled you to inflation. It's as Biden likes to say, malarkey. But that's not stopping Biden's authoritarian ways. Instead of taking ownership of the masses created, he is using his gas lighting as an excuse to move us further away from free markets. Biden announced a task force by both the FDC and the DOJ on corporate pricing. Notably absent is any focus on government spending in pricing, by the way. The focus of this endeavor is not only to crack down on illegal pricing, but quote, unfair pricing, whatever that is. As we know, the concept of unfair is completely subjective. In terms of government, unfair is a weasel word to allow them to further pick winners and losers and do more stupid things that would ultimately hurt the economy, like institute price controls, which always leads to bad outcomes like goods rationing. Customers aren't stupid and gas lighting them adds insult to injury. We all know what caused inflation and who's to blame, whether we are on Main Street or Sesame Street. I'm bestselling author Carol Roth. My latest book is You Will Own Nothing and you can connect with me at CarolRoth.com slash news. You've been listening to the Fox News rundown. And now stay up to date by subscribing to this podcast at FoxNewsPodcasts.com. Listen to Add Free on Fox News Podcasts plus on Apple Podcasts. And, prime members can listen to the show Add Free on Amazon Music. And for up to the minute news, go to FoxNews.com. Daily Newsletter. And I'm inviting you to join a conversation every week. It's the Bend Dominic podcast. Subscribe and listen now by going to FoxNewsPodcasts.com.