 This episode is brought to you by Kia's first three-roll, all-electric SUV, the Kia EV9, with available all-wheel drive and seating for up to seven adults, with zero to 60 speed that thrills you one minute and available lounge seats that unwind you the next. Visit Kia.com slash EV9 to learn more. Ask your Kia dealer for availability. No system, no matter how advanced, can compensate for all driver error and or driving conditions, always drive safely. I'm Brian Kilmeade. I'm Kennedy. I'm Sean Duffy and this is The Fox News rundown. Tuesday, March 19, 2024, only subrating. The US Supreme Court hears arguments on a fight between the federal government and two Republican-led states over pressure to remove social media posts. We've got to build a wall of separation between tech and state to protect our first amendment right to free speech. I'm Dave Anthony. President Biden heads west this week, going to two battleground states he hopes to win again in a Trump rematch. I as a Democrat and a Democratic strategist, when I look at Arizona, that concerns me more than Nevada. It's a border state. Republicans have a stronger argument with immigration. And I'm Carol Markowitz. I've got the final word on The Fox News rundown. For the second time in less than a month, the US Supreme Court hears arguments about content moderation on social media. This time, drilling down on efforts by the Biden administration to combat what it deems disinformation, pushing platforms to remove posts about COVID-related topics, including vaccines, masks, and how the pandemic started, also about election integrity. Missouri, Louisiana, and several social media users sued, claiming free speech rights were violated. And lower courts sided with the states, ruling that a constitutional violation was likely. But those rulings were blocked by the Supreme Court while it considers the case. During about 90 minutes of arguments yesterday, Justice Samuel Alito suggested the government is holding anti-trust laws and illegal liabilities shield for online platforms as weapons at the ready to get what they want from the companies. It's treating Facebook and these other platforms like their subordinates. What would you do that to the New York Times or the Wall Street Journal or the associated press or any other big newspaper or wire service? Government lawyers argue there was no coercion. Brian Fletcher is the principal deputy solicitor general. There's a problem if the government is engaged in coercion. But if it stays on the persuasion side of the line and all we're talking about is government speech, then there's no state action. And some justices, including Kataji Brown Jackson, sound reluctant to limit government contact with big tech, as long as it doesn't cross a constitutional line. The government actually has a duty to take steps to protect the citizens of this country. Last month, the High Court heard a separate fight over laws in Florida and Texas, aiming to stop what critics call censoring of conservative views on social media. In this second case, accusing the federal government of crossing a line, the Justice Department has warned against making judges the superintendent of the executive branches communications with and about social media platforms, arguing that would be an unprecedented intrusion into another branch's power. The Biden administration also says platforms routinely declined to moderate content flagged by the government and that there's no evidence that a sanction was ever imposed when that happened. But a federal appeals court ruling that's on hold would bar a variety of officials, including from the FBI, White House, and CDC from having contact with social media platforms. Bottom line, we put on evidence at the district court level that established blagrant violations of our first amendment right to free speech through government coercion. Missouri Attorney General Andrew Bailey, government coercion of big tech social media companies targeting a viewpoint or elimination from public discourse. Now, when you say coercion, the US solicitor general says tech platforms were not coerced into censorship that they took suggestions from the government based on facts. From your perspective, is there any chance that is actually what happened? No, we can clearly establish coercion. And it would be news to Facebook that they weren't coerced because their internal emails demonstrate that they understood themselves to be forced to change their censorship algorithms to satisfy federal officials demands. But I would also point out that there's other ways to demonstrate that the federal government actually targeted the censorship. And its coercion is one element. One of the other elements is significant encouragement. And at a minimum, the communications between the federal government and big tech, even if, even if one were to determine that they didn't rise level coercion, which I disagree, they are coercion. But even if you thought they weren't coercion, they certainly represent significant encouragement to censor. And finally, when you see that there's a conspiracy and joint participation between co-conspirators, that can also constitute governmental action. And in this case, the emails from the White House and other administration officials repeatedly tell big tech that they're on the same team. They want the same thing and they're working together. So essentially, it was as if big tech had outsourced its content moderation to federal officials in the Biden administration. How crucial is the email evidence in this case? Is there a case without it? No, I think the 20,000 documents we obtained through preliminary discovery are really critical. I think that the creates the most clear picture of coercion and the big tech social media corporations. But I'd also say that the numerous depositions that we're taking are also probative evidence that establish this vast censorship regime across a spectrum of federal bureaucratic agencies. From the top of the White House, down through the cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency, which has been called the nerve center of the vast censorship enterprise. I mean, when you're talking about thousands of documents, I'm sure there's a lot of examples that you could give. But are there a few that stand out more than the rest? Yeah, absolutely. Just let me give you a few. Number one, specific emails from Rob Flaherty, the White House Communications Office, where he's demanding that big tech change their censorship algorithms to de-platform De-Infacizer Shadowband, anyone who is questioning the White House's COVID policies. I would also point out that the cybersecurity and infrastructure security agencies, CISOP, maintains a spreadsheet of targets for government censorship. So this is Orwellian, and it's a clear violation of our right to free speech. And the harm is ongoing. It's not limited in time because what happens is people are now less likely to talk about COVID tyranny, less likely to talk about election integrity, less likely to talk about President Donald Trump for fear of being booted off big tech social media platforms. And the first amendment protects not only people's right to speak, but people's right to hear as well. So every user of big tech or anyone who ever has obtained information from big tech is impacted by these violations. How much of this case is wrapped up in COVID versus other topics? COVID is certainly the Trojan horse that got the enemy behind the gates. I mean, COVID is the excuse that the federal government is using saying, hey, look, they believe they've got to fight back against what they call misinformation in order to promote public health. But the problem with that is if the Constitution gives way in times of national emergency, then bureaucrats will just perpetually use a national emergency to get around the Constitution to achieve illicit objectives. And I would point out too, it's dripping with irony that the federal government claims to want to protect you and me for misinformation. And yet 100% of the speech that they targeted for censorship ended up being truthful speech. But that points to the fact that the remedy for disfavored speech is counter-speech not government censorship. If President Biden and his army of federal bureaucrats didn't like what was being said on big tech social media platforms, they should have offered their own speech, not censored American voices in violation of the First Amendment. And again, the speech they were censoring was core political speech. It was protected by the First Amendment. And the ambition of the Biden administration is to eliminate any dissenting viewpoint from public discourse. And I mean, we are talking about a time of unusual circumstances, right? The height of a pandemic, and then just the fact that the internet and social media platforms have come such a long way in such a short time, is there ever a time in your mind that it would be appropriate for the government to step in and make suggestions to companies about what's posted on their platforms? No, we've got to build a wall of separation between tech and state to protect our First Amendment right to free speech. And I think some of the justice has pointed this out during their questioning when they identified the fact that Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act has created this government sanctioned monopoly of big tech social media corporations that are consolidated and are easier to target for censorship than a more traditional medium of communication that would be you know, would be tethered to open market principles that would mitigate against the desire to censor. Does this really boil down to a bigger question though about the internet and social media? You know, who decides what is information and how does that ever get resolved in a way that would be acceptable to everybody? The American people make those determinations, not unelected federal bureaucrats. But I mean, there are limits on certain things, right? Certain content is restricted in some way depending on what it is. So does that lend itself to the arguments that you know, actual misinformation should be restricted as well. But again, it comes down to what's misinformation, right? That's right. And the point I'm making here is that it's up to the American people to determine what they do and don't want to believe. It's not up to the government to determine what we shouldn't shouldn't hear. And especially when we're talking about protected core political speech and going back to your earlier point, COVID was the Trojan horse that got the enemy behind the gates. But we know that there have been instances where the deep state has suppressed the 100 Biden laptops story and prepared big tech social media to suppress that story once it broke. There were meetings between the Department of Justice and big tech social media platforms in the weeks and months leading up to the 2020 election, where again, they planted and germinated the seed that there would be a Russian disinformation story related to Hunter Biden. Despite the fact that the FBI knew that the laptop was authentic, at some point that becomes election interference. And so again, the topics that are subject to censorship go well beyond COVID security. How concerned are you about the implications of this case going forward in general, but also specifically for the presidential election, giving the existing concerns about election interference? I think the right to free speech is fundamental to who we are as Americans and it's vital to the health of our democratic republic. And it is a strategic objective that we must secure less we lose our national identity in the sole of our nation. What's the best case scenario for your case and for the Louisiana case coming out of the Supreme Court? What are you hoping will happen? And if they don't go all the way and give some sort of partial decision, you know, what could that look like? Well, I believe the Supreme Court ultimately will affirm the district court's preliminary injunction. And again, that's laying the first brick in the wall of separation between tech and state will then be backed down at the district court level conducting merits discovery to root out this vast censorship enterprise and put a stop to it once and for all. So, but if they if they don't go that far or if they decide not to uphold what the what the lower courts have done, I guess what's what's the worst case scenario is what I'm asking to? Well, you know, there's certainly an off chance that the court will say that the district court wrongly entered the preliminary injunction, but the case will then go on will be backed out at the district court level to conduct merits discovery regardless. So at the end of the day, we're not going to stop fighting to protect our first amendment right to free speech and to prevent the government from co-wersing big tech into silencing our voices. How optimistic are you based on what you heard during the arguments? I'm optimistic. I think that, you know, at a minimum several of the justices clearly understood what was at stake and clearly understood the coercive relationship between the federal government and big tech and understand that at the end of the day, this is viewpoint discrimination that is intolerable under our first amendment. Missouri Attorney General Andrew Bailey, thank you very much for your time. Hey, thank you so much. Great talking to you. Thank you for covering this important story. Listen now by going to Fox News Podcasts.com. FoxNewsPodcast.com. This is Carol Markowitz with your Fox News commentary coming up. They are battleground states. President Biden hopes to win again. Today travels to Nevada, then it's off to Arizona. Confident that 2024 will be like 2020. I know it sounds like hyperbole, but it's all in your hands and you folks like you all across the country because this is how I won the first time ever ran. This is how we're going to win again. That was the president with Biden supporters last week in Minneapolis. A lot of you helped me in 2020 and we should make sure he was a loser. He is a loser. We're going to make sure that happens again. But polls have shown former president Trump leads in both states, which could be key in his attempt to win back the White House. I as a Democrat and a Democratic strategist when I look at Arizona, that concerns me more than Nevada. Leslie Marshall is a Fox News contributor and radio talk show host. It's a border state. Republicans have a stronger argument with immigration. That's an area, honestly, that I wish the president and that my party would do more about. One of the things I wish that they would do more about is letting the American people know facts. For example, a lot of people don't realize that the flow of those crossing the border in both January and February was more than 50% less than in December. I'm not talking a year ago. I'm talking December. That's a victory lap that you should take. When there's apprehensions, this many, we stop this amount of fentanyl from coming in. That's not the messaging that's being heard. The messaging that's being heard is that Democrats don't want to close our border, which is laughable to me because our border is closed. Well, December, you referenced December. That was a record number. There were over 300,000 encounters at the border with those crossing illegally. That doesn't even encounter those. The Godaways that they didn't apprehend and all of that. Now, even when the numbers come down, you're still seeing a shift into other areas like they went away from Texas more in Arizona, more in California. Then there was the the amount of Chinese immigrants coming in. So it's even when the numbers change, the focus doesn't look so great for the Biden administration. True. I don't disagree with that. But then we also have to look at reasons why. I mean, think about it. Republicans are going do something about immigration, right? And the Democrats go, okay, and in the Senate will work together, right? Okay, we've got this. This is where the numbers would be. This is how much the numbers would be cut. This is how many more people would get jobs. This is how much more security and strength that we have with border control. This is how we would address the backlog and Republicans go, no, the Democrats need to push that more. That's what I'm saying is part of it is the messaging in my opinion. Nobody's I'm not advising the president, but if I were advising the president, I would I would and he's been doing it. He did it in a state of a union, but he needs to do it more, which is at least, you know, regarding the issue of immigration, here are the facts. Here's what I can do. Here's what I will do. But I want to say something else about Arizona with regard to those numbers. When it comes down, when we see numbers, and you know, certainly, you know, polls can make me nervous, but methodology has changed. I just don't trust a poll numbers as much. And I haven't since 2016. And I know there are a lot of people that agree with me on that left or right. But when it comes to the state of Arizona, I do think there are going to be segments that we're not seeing in these polls that are going to come out strong for Joe Biden. One would be seniors. Uh, Arizona, like Florida, has a very large retirement population. There are many, uh, you know, 65 plus Joe Biden does very well with 65 plus. And that, you know, the polling shows that because, you know, there's many times that Republicans have talked about taking a hatchet to Medicare and to social security. And that frightens them. Abortion is going to be a bigger issue. It wasn't the midterms. It was in Ohio. It will be in the general. And you're going to see women in youth, perhaps not, um, represented in some of this polling who are going to come out on mass, uh, to vote for Joe Biden because they don't want the alternative. They're going to be Republicans that vote for Trump because they're Republican and he's the Republican nominee. They're going to be Democrats that vote for Joe Biden because he's Democrat. He's the Democratic nominee. And that's the majority, right, of the voters. But it's that sliver. It's that sliver of independence. But I think that the, uh, older population, the women and the youth are going to put Joe Biden over the finish line. And I hate to say this, but if there was one state that he flipped that I would be most fearful of flipping back red, that would be Arizona. I want to listen to former president Trump. You're talking to how he curts on the Fox media buzz on Sunday. And he talked about some of the Democrats. You talked about Democrats voting for Biden. Listen to the former president. There's no hope with Biden. He's a dead head, but there's not no Democrats viewing. That's why the, I think the Democrats vote for me a lot more than you think. In fact, I saw where at least 10 or 12% of the Democrats are voting for me. They've never seen a number like that. See, I have a theory. People in Beverly Hills vote for me, but they don't talk about it. All right. Now, is he right? They're polls showing he has stronger support among black voters, Hispanic voters? What do you think, Leslie? Well, he has stronger support among black and Hispanic voters and red states that he's going to win anyway. Okay. But he doesn't have stronger support among black and Hispanics and blue states, or in those swing states. Yes, there are pockets, but I would be concerned if those numbers were not in the red states, but in the blue and the purple states. And I'm just not seeing that. You know, there's always a way to represent numbers, right? Sure. You know, you can always talk numbers in a certain way that benefits you. And the former president does that a lot. And sometimes he does that without accuracy. But no, Democrats are not supporting Donald Trump, but you know, double digits, a percentage, as he said. And if so, I'd love to see the data for that. Now, the president's approval rating around the upper 30s in the Gallup surveys lower than Trump approval rating at this time. George H. W. Bush's approval rating at this time. Jimmy Carter's approval rating at this time. All three were presidents who were defeated in attempts at being reelected. Does that make any nervous? Well, of course, it makes me nervous. A very tight race, even without those numbers, it makes me nervous because it's very, very tight. And Americans are very fickle. I mean, you know, we can love you on Monday and hate you on Tuesday, based on a word of sentence, what you're wearing, you know, how you smile or you didn't smile. I mean, come on, we're very fickle. Look, when Joe Biden ran last time around, I heard that he wasn't going to be president because Democrats were an enthusiastic and they weren't going to show up. Well, the numbers prove that to be wrong. I'm hoping that will be the case again, because right now, Americans see the headlines, economies doing well, but they're not feeling it. And I do feel, strongly, by the time the election comes around, they'll feel it more. And that with regard to the economy, they'll feel more positive. But Paul after Paul, I know you don't trust the polls, but Paul after Paul have former president Trump, well, ahead of president Biden when it comes to the economy, inflation is, is, is an anchor on president Biden to this day, even though the rate of inflation has come down. It's not like prices are going down. It's just the rate of increases is slowing. So that's still an issue that he's, he's been dogged by again. I'm not, you know, I'm not concerned about that. Oh, you know, I'm not concerned about that because the economy is improving almost on a day-to-day basis. And by the time the election comes around, I, I am very confident that it will, we'll see better numbers, you know, for president Biden with regard to the economy. Immigration, not so sure, you know, but democracy. Yeah. Now when it comes, when it comes to the, you know, so really, the election security is what the president's harping on that that former president Trump's a danger to democracy. He's going to be harping on that a lot too, right? Well, yes, but Donald Trump is actually doing a lot to hurt himself with some of the rhetoric that he's talking about. When you're talking about rounding up Latinos, when you're talking about detention, the centers are cancee, you know, I live in California where we had manzanar here. You know, when you have, I mean, just some of, you know, some of the rhetoric, regarding January 6th and regarding the people involved in January 6th, regarding the leader of North Korea, regarding Putin, as opposed to Zelensky or Russia, compared to Ukraine. I think there's some dangerous things being said by the former president that certainly don't help him with regard to confidence in voters to consider him somebody to keep and hold the democracy dear and free. There was an NBC report that President Biden is angry at times at his re-election camp that he's anxious about what what the strategies have been as they ramp up the re-election effort. Do you think that he's right to be nervous? Do you think that that's accurate? I think everybody when things are not going the way they would like perhaps look around at their team and, you know, I know I do. And you look and you look around at your team and you say, come on, you know, what's going on? I mean, there's been some infighting, there's been some resignations. You got to be just like a party. You have to be united. The president's age continues to be an issue as well. People see him at times, maybe looking like he might, doesn't know where he's going or something like that or he'll stumble through his speech a little bit. Supposedly he's wearing these new shoes. I guess they're called hokas or something like that where I don't know, he's on his feet to make him more comfortable. But the issue of his age and if they don't let him speak his mind and they don't let him take questions, I mean, do you think that the strategy has to change to make him look different? Well, he is an older man. But after the state of the union, pull after pull, even though man out of a bumped his approval, but pull after pull, you know, had more confidence with him and his age. Donald Trump just talked about Barack Obama beating Joe Biden. Donald Trump has been making, you know, arguably as many slip ups, if you will, as Joe Biden. But for some reason, they just, you know, they the press want to harp on Joe Biden and Joe Biden's age. Look, Donald Trump won the presidency, but then he lost it, which means there are people that were enamored with and voted for Donald Trump that didn't the second time around. The people that didn't vote for him the second time around, I don't think the majority of them are going to vote for him the third time around. Because I think that most people don't like to go back. And that's not just because it's Donald Trump or Republican. I think people want to move forward. Leslie Marshall, Democratic Strategist, Fox News contributor, radio talk show host, great to talk to you. Thanks so much. Thank you. I'm Anna Eliopoulos with your Fox true crime minute. A maintenance man for a downtown Los Angeles apartment building who died last month is believed to have faked his own death years earlier to escape a child rape charge in Washington state. The LA County Medical Examiner's office discovered the true identity of Mark Clemens was actually Christian Robert Boschum, who was arrested in 2008, charged with second degree child rape and released on $350,000 bond. Months later in March 2009, a witness reported seeing Boschum jump from the Tacoma Nero's bridge. Searches from boats and airplanes never found a body, but his car and a suicide note were later discovered and he was assumed to cease. The medical examiner's office says they have alerted the Bremerton Police Department about Clemens true identity. They say that local Washington detectives will be looking into his movements after his supposed death 15 years ago. There's more on this story at Fox News dot com. Subscribe to the Fox true crime podcast with Emily Componio. I'm Anna Eliopoulos with your Fox true crime minute. It's time for your Fox News commentary. Carol Markowitz. What's on your mind? Quote that war ended the way all the other wars have ended with our closest ally saying that's enough end quote. We're listening to a talk by Abraham Levine speaker and digital content manager from the Alma Research and Education Center, a nonprofit dedicated to research and analysis of the security challenges Israel faces on its border with Lebanon. Levine is referring to the 2006 war Israel fought with Lebanon after Hezbollah launched a sneak attack on Israel first launching rockets and then kidnapping two soldiers. If it sounds familiar, that's because it is. It's a cycle that Israel's forced to live through every few years, suffer death and destruction bite back, be told to stop it. Levine is giving this talk the day the Biden administration gingerly walked back their red line comments regarding the Israeli defense forces continuing on to Rafa. This time is unusual because Israel has taken the step of evacuating 80,000 people from their homes in the north after the October 7th attacks in the south. Will they ever go back? How? When? The phrase existential crisis is on everyone's lips. I had spent nearly a week in Israel hearing the perspective on the ground more range of people, experts and civilians alike. The trip featured wild emotional swings. We visited hostage square in Tel Aviv and spoke to families of those being held captive in Gaza. We walked among the memorials at the site of the Nova Music Festival, were teenagers out for a good time on a Friday night were slaughtered. It was sad and infuriating. Still all around us is a country fully flourishing and alive. Israel goes through periods of relative quiet. But the last wars never really over. Leftists in the US and Europe brush off the Israeli deaths that happen at these incursions and try to make Israel's square peg fit into their round ideological hole. Senate majority leader Chuck Schumer recently called for overthrowing Israeli Prime Minister Ben Minyat Nyaahu, ostensibly because, quote, dangerous and inflammatory policies that test existing US standards for assistance end quote. But not a single leader in Israel or anywhere else would conduct a gentler war after this lawtelling of teenagers and the elderly in their homes and the kidnapping of babies still in their pajamas. Or the continuing misconception that Israel's troubles are caused by their quote occupation of Gaza and the West Bank. When you listen to Israel's enemies speak, however, it's clear that what they want isn't a free Gaza or the West Bank, but an occupied by them Tel Aviv and Haifa. None of the murderers on October 7th shouted out free Palestine. They called their parents and bragged about killing Jews. The point is not their freedom. It's Israeli destruction. Before the attacks on October 7th, Israel was in a very divided place with large weekly protests about judicial reform. Since then, the country has united, but obvious fractures remain. All over Tel Aviv, half of Netanyahu's face appears on billboards with the words, you are the head, you're guilty in Hebrew. Even what should be non-political becomes political. I'd hostage square, small protests have sprung up to pressure the Israeli government to make a deal, any deal, as long as the hostages are returned. This has caused a fracture even among hostage families. Some of them will understandably push for absolutely anything to bring their loved ones home. Others think the long-term strategy of the country needs to take precedence. There's a sense that Israel simply can't keep doing this every few years. Hamas needs to be dealt with in the South and left only somewhat unsaid is that the North will ignite sooner rather than later as well. America looms large. Will their closest ally let them defend themselves or will we cut them off from destroying their enemies and begin the cycle anew? Israelis are on their edge of their seats waiting to find out. This is Carol Marco, it's columnist at the New York Post and Fox News. Plus on Apple Podcasts and Prime Members can listen to the show Add Free on Amazon Music. And for up to the minute news, go to FoxNews.com. I'm Emily Camponio, host of the Fox True Crime Podcast. Far too often, women's lives are cut short as they fall victim to unthinkable crimes, but each week this month I'll be joined by women who fought back, survived, and took back control. You won't want to miss this month's stories of survival, strength, and resilience. Listen and download on Apple, Spotify, and FoxNews Podcasts.com.