 Saturday, March 2nd, 2024, I'm Jessica Rosenthal. The fight for the presidency went south to Texas this past week as President Biden tried to put the border ball in Republican's court. Former President Trump put the migrant crisis squarely on Biden. You had Biden thing, work with me, Mr. Trump. Let's do what's best for America, but then in an eagle pass, Trump at almost the exact same time was calling the migrant crisis Joe Biden's invasion and blaming the president. I'm Jared Halpern. The longest serving Senate leader ever is stepping aside sending shock waves across the beltway. Father time remains undefeated. I'm no longer the young man sitting in the back, hoping colleagues would remember my name. This is the Fox News rundown from Washington. This past week President Biden made the second trip of his presidency to the border and after meeting with border agents, ICE agents, asylum officers and others in operational briefings in Brownsville, Texas, he said they all need more resources. Need more agents, more officers, more judges, more equipment in order to secure our border. Folks is time for us to move on this. We can't wait any longer. Over 300 miles away, an eagle pass, former President Trump put all of the blame for millions of people entering the country, claiming asylum and being told to show up for a hearing years later on President Biden. This is a Joe Biden invasion. This is a Biden invasion over the past three years. He referenced crimes committed by illegal aliens, including the suspect in the murder of University Georgia nursing student, Lincoln Riley. Joe Biden will never say, Lincoln Riley's name, but we will say it and we will remember it. We're not going to forget her. It's been just a horrible story that we've had to live with for the last few days. It's hard to believe and her parents are just they can never be the same. While Trump criticized Biden, Biden criticized Republicans for failing to pass a border bill that he says after more than three years into his presidency would have addressed many of the issues at the border. But when he mentioned the bill, he also talked to former President Trump directly. Set a plan policy to this issue. Set a telling members of Congress to block this legislation. Join me. Or I'll join you in telling the Congress to pass this bipartisan border security So we'll an attempt to put the ball on this in Republicans court matter politically and would former President Trump ever work with President Biden? Well, if I'm being honest about it, I'd say probably not. Griff Jenkins is a Fox News correspondent and Cohen, or a Fox News live. He's been reporting live from the border. I mean, what we witnessed on Thursday was truly something like out of a old Western gun slinger showdown. You know, you had President Trump in the Eagle Pass, which was certainly the epicenter of the unprecedented migrant crisis. I've spent most of September in October in Eagle Pass when you had more than 2000 on multiple days crossed right in that area under that bridge. And as that was there reporting, Jessica, I literally knew because I'm with the border patrol agents that there were only six or eight, no more than 12 border patrol agents on shift. It didn't even give in time dealing with upwards of 2000 people. And it was such a unbelievable snapshot of how the cartels and the migrant crisis had just overwhelmed our capacity there. And they really opened the eyes for the country. But then, of course, go back to Thursday and you saw Trump in Eagle Pass standing there where Texas has put a miles of razor wire to literally shut it down to a trickle, a drop in a bucket, just a few hundred at most on any given day in that area. In Biden came the Brownsville, which even before that migrant crisis in Eagle Pass, Brownsville was the epicenter. If you remember, just as Title 42 was ending right where I'm standing right now at this moment, along a levy, we had Fox's drone up in the sky and you were seeing hundreds of migrants coming across there. The Jessica in my orcus and then border patrol chief, where the teeth came down. I interviewed them when they were here on the ground talking about the crisis. So then you had Trump and Biden giving these doing speeches. And in, of course, as you mentioned, Biden's speech, he called out his predecessor. And by the way, the two towns are separated by about three or a mile. You had Biden saying, work with me, Mr. Trump, let's do what's best for America. But then in Eagle Pass, Trump at almost the exact same time was calling the migrant crisis Joe Biden's invasion and blaming the president. And clearly what you were witnessing was a political, doing political speeches. And the weaker position, if you will, was probably the current president, Joe Biden's position because you see poll after poll just had a gallop poll this week saying that the top issue by 28% was immigration, the first time in Gallup's history. The immigration has searched the top like that. And so, you know, the Biden campaign knows that they are vulnerable in this. And clearly, President Trump is showing their indication of wanting Republicans to work with Biden in an election year. So I'm not terribly optimistic that anything is going to happen or that any sort of bipartisan legislation can get any daylight right now because of how high the election stakes are. Now, we can talk separately about what President Trump could possibly do if he gets back into office. But short of that, it's pretty clear that the Biden administration is going to have to take some sort of executive order action to at least have the appearance that they're trying to bring numbers down because all of the chaos in all of the months I spent in Texas, it's moved out well. Griff, it is interesting. So President Biden made this point that as he received his operational briefing, he was saying everyone keeps telling me they need more resources, more resources. But you need more resources precisely because of how many people are flowing into the country. There was no discussion at least in prepared remarks that I heard about, you know, using the pen, using the authority to issue an executive order. But he has wide authority, right? I mean, we saw it under former President Trump much to just our discussion about remain in Mexico. I mean, if you want to do something you could. So Jessica, that's such a critical and important point to make with the stroke of a pen, you would think he could allocate. And when we talk about resources, there's two specific areas that the officials are saying they need to help. One is in the manpower and that is agents, board of parole agents, CDP officers. The other are asylum officers, asylum judges to more quickly approve or disapprove. And then the third end of this are the ICE capacity for both detention space and removal of lines. And clearly a congressional additional funding could do that. But, you know, when you're President of the United States, you can move allocations around, you can do things to try and stop it. But the one thing about resources that wasn't mentioned left out of the President's remarks and a big part of what the border officials will tell you is when you have the board of parole agents dealing in an exclusive interview a few days ago with the board of parole chief, Jason Ellen, he told me as much. He said, you know, border security is the fundamental, a fundamental component of national security. And we need more resources to do that. But when the current resources are being used, board of parole agents that is to transport and process migrants and not being out in areas where we don't have awareness where you've got bad actors coming across and drugs in contraband, that really is the shift that's got to change. But until policy's change, which this administration favors a release policy in the country, would notice this to appear alternatives to detention, you can't really having more agents to do the same thing. You're still leaving wide open those vulnerabilities where those that don't want apprehend, which many are have criminal histories and the like, that you're not you're not solving the fundamental problem of security. So Griff speaking of that part, it was Trump who mentioned Lincoln Riley, right? And the the growing number of victims of undocumented migrant crime. If such crimes continue, God forbid, this is an issue for President Biden, right? Because these are people who committed crimes, at least thus far, who were here before that border bill failed that Biden keeps pressing for. That bill wouldn't stop the crimes being committed by people who arrived here before that border bill tanked. How much of an issue are the security issues within the United States? These crime issues. These are real issues, Jessica. And these are paramount issues. And I don't know if you know, you may have seen the pool camera is the president left. You took no questions from the press, but of course we in the press pool will shout questions and sometimes answers. Here on camera, I shouted my question, which was I said, Mr. President, do you bear any responsibility for Lincoln Riley's death as a result of the policies? He turned and he walked away and ignored me, but it really strikes at the point of Lincoln Riley is just one of many instances we had in the same week of Lincoln Riley's death. We are seeing what's playing out near Washington, DC and Prince George County, Maryland. And I'll Salvador and migrant that was released through the community killing a two-year-old toddler, allegedly suspect in the murder of toddler, Dana, Louisiana, another migrant from Honduras accused of raping at knife point of 14 year old. So there are so many instances of the past two years of these migrants being released in the country that are now committing these crimes. And it is important to point out, as the administration often notes, it is accurate that the majority of those that are here for whatever reason that they're seeking a better life, that's not enough for asylum, but in fairness to them, they're not criminals, but yet there is a certain percentage. And look no further than ISIS fiscal year end report for 2023, you can look on there. Literally on page 15, they break down the migrants that they were apprehend, they were apprehend. They're among them like 1600 homicides, 1700 rapes, they were moved, they went out of the community, apprehended migrants, they've been released in the country, and then arrested them and ultimately removed them from the country. But the question is how many did we not get and how many are going to commit future offenses and that's the threat to communities. And it's important also to note, I think, Jessica, that the biggest threat to any community is actually the migrant community because when they're illegal, they go into their migrant communities and whatever city there is. And so those migrant-fitter non-citizens that aren't criminals but are living with them are at the greatest risk, not just the community at large. Griff, just a couple more for you. A recent monmouth poll finds, I think it's 53% now want a wall completed? That's compared to 42%, who's said so in 2019. So a sizable chunk of people now want a wall built more so than what we have. Trump notably went to an area that's now sealed up more, right? Shelby Park area. What does that say about the efforts to construct fencing, put up concertina wire, even if it results in a fight with the federal government, and this growing maybe appetite for more security? It says a lot and I'm glad you raised that point because where I am, right now physically it came monument where I was just mentioning back in May nine months ago the hundreds of acrossing all day long. That area is not an area that Biden came to see. He didn't come to that area that was the epicenter nine months ago the crisis because much like in Shelby Park, here in Palmeville, along that river, is miles of razor wire and obstruction that stopped and literally brought to a halt the crossings in this area. We did have a group of a hundred across this week since I've been covering it and they used bull cutters to get to the wire, but it's far and few between and so you're seeing that it works and there's an irony in I think that President Biden came to an area that's one of the slowest now in the country to make his photo up and to make his visit to the border, which is actually a slow traffic area, not because of things that his administration did, but because of things like obstructing, setting up obstructions like wall and razor fencing, which are policies that Biden opposes and yet Texas did it. So he didn't want to have a photo abstaining in front of what Texas did that bid reduce crossings rather he wanted to go and get a tour along the wall and the border here. And I think the American people see it. They see what's having these things that work and so that I think those poll numbers, I would predict to you will continue to go up that Americans believed that they want to see wall construction. Okay, lastly, Griff, because you saw with your own eyes, the man standing next to President Biden for most of his border trip was Homeland Security Secretary Mayorkas, who was impeached by the House over his handling of this very border crisis. The Senate had seemed disinterested really in holding an impeachment trial on their side, but now Minority Leader McConnell and South Dakota Senator John Thune, they say a trial is actually the best way forward after a group of Republican senators said, yeah, we should have one. Mayorkas maybe is not out of the woods. What's your, I guess, what's your take? What's your sense of the closeness, President Biden feels with his secretary? Well, I think that, you know, I'll be surprised if the Mayorkas trial does get off the ground. And I was on Capitol Hill for days, you may recall covering when the House was impeaching Mayorkas. And they're impeaching for two reasons. Jessica, one is, is dereliction failure to carry out the immigration laws in the books, meaning stopping people from illegally crossing. And then the other is lying to the American people because the administration and he was the face of it, telling us for a month and months, years that the border was secure. When, in fact, it wasn't. However, here's the problem. And that is ultimately, de-justically, Mayorkas is essentially an officer of the president. And so, you know, there is, I think, some reticence even amongst Republicans that, well, if this guy who is the face of it, Mayorkas said this, is just carrying out his bosses policies. How do you hold him accountable? And that's why, you know, when our great reporter, Chad Perville and others often point out, it's been since like the 1800s, they impeached the secretary because ultimately, they're just following their orders. Griff Jenkins, thank you so much for joining us. Thank you. And listen, we will continue to be on the border. And I'll just leave you with this, Jessica. And that is, you know, but for Fox News' efforts, not just me, but also Bill Maloo, and Matt San, Alexis McAdams, others, that have spent months on, down on the border, I think that maybe the country wouldn't have seen it. We now see other networks and other media covering it because we put it on the front burner and let people see and decide for themselves what they make of it. But one thing is for sure, and you mentioned those polls, the American people are paying attention now, and it's going to be a big part of this year's election. Great. Thanks, Griff. Great to be with you. I'm Guy Benson. Joining the weekdays at 3 p.m. Eastern as we break down the biggest stories of the day with some of the biggest newsmakers and guests. Listen live on the Fox News app or get the free podcast at GuyBensonShow.com. Over the course of four Presidencies in nine sessions of Congress, one person has led Senate Republicans, Kentucky's Mitch McConnell. But this week he surprised many by announcing he will end his historic run at the end of this year, and for the first time since January of 2007, the GOP will have a new Senate leader. Father time remains undefeated. I'm no longer the young man sitting in the back, hoping colleagues would remember my name. It's time for the next generation of leadership. In a speech on the Senate floor in which McConnell grew emotional, he made clear he's not going anywhere yet. He'll finish his term as Republican leader this year, and intends to remain in the Senate as the senior senator from Kentucky through the 2026 midterms. I still have enough gas in my tank to thoroughly disappoint my critics. And I intend to do so with all enthusiasm with which they become a customer. But McConnell's exit from leadership signals a big shift in the Republican party in the ensuing contest to replace him will define a new era. Already candidates have emerged, Texas Senator John Cornyn is officially in the race. Others will no doubt join in. Fox News senior congressional correspondent Chad Pergram has covered every day of McConnell's reign as leader, the longest tenure ever for a Senate leader. Mitch McConnell had told me that he had made the decision at the beginning of this Congress. It was just a question about when he was going to step aside. And I think for the people who are vying for his job, there are three main contenders. And I can talk about how they might not be the main contenders when we get to the actual vote in November. But John Cornyn, the former whip John Thune, the current whip and John Barasso from Wyoming, who was the Republican conference chairman, that basically they were glad that he made this announcement early on so people can begin to plan. So you're right, it was a surprise because this was very closely kept. That's signature Mitch McConnell played very close to his political vest. I think they were pleased with that. But here's the other factor that's so fascinating. In some respects, this was not a surprise. As you know, Mitch McConnell has not been on the same wavelength as former President Trump. And that's putting it mildly, frankly, although I'm told that that was not as big a factor in this as you might think, especially if say Mitch McConnell was going to still stick around. And and President Trump say he wins in the fall. Obviously they thought he might try to oust him. But I'm told that really wasn't a factor that Mitch McConnell had made this decision some time ago. There was the health question. I think that there were some senators who really started to have questions about his viability after he had these freezing episodes. He had this bad fall last March. Him was out from the Senate for about six weeks. And and he is 82. You know, he gave a pretty eloquent speech on the Senate floor. Mitch McConnell was not known for eloquence necessarily. He was known for for very straightforward political talk. And if you listen to him as I say, listen to precisely what Mitch McConnell says because he will tell you what he what he intends to do. And and you know, people will listen to his speech and everything else and say, Oh, no, he said this. I'm like, No, that's not quite what he said. But he grew emotional and almost kind of teard up a wept a little bit. I think that told you a lot about Mitch McConnell. There are some who have wondered if maybe this was a not so subtle signal to his former colleague and dear friend in the Senate. President Biden, maybe it's time to step aside. You know, people forget just how close they were in the Senate. And the fact that in 2016 you had then vice president Biden presiding over the Senate for the last time. This was in late December of 2016. The vice president is the president of the Senate and sometimes presides. And so vice president Biden at the time came to the Senate for the kind of a farewell. And Mitch McConnell on the floor in real time renamed this cancer bill for bo-biden. We hear a lot about Hunter Biden, but bo-biden the president's other son who passed away from brain cancer. And that was an emotional scene. So there's quite a bond between these two leaders. Yeah, I think what McConnell said was father time remains undefeated. Yes. And he's right. You know, I was asked a couple of questions about Mitch McConnell over the last several days. Obviously, you and I have both done a lot of reporting on on this. And he's been the only, by the way, Republican leader I've ever covered. I arrived here in DC in the fall of 2010. He was already well into his historic run as a Republican leader. I started with George Mitchell. There you go. But there haven't been many that you've covered. Well, George Mitchell, Bob Dole was a Republican leader then became the jury leader. Well, and in between Trent Lot, then Bill Fritz and then Harry Reed Mitch McConnell Chuck Schumer. Yeah. And it's not been it's been yeah, a pretty short list of folks that that Mitch McConnell finds himself in. But you know, what I had said is that, you know, to be leader that long takes a certain skill to be able to speak to, you know, the needs of your conference kind of know the pressure points when to use a stick, when to use a carrot. I think former speaker Nancy Pelosi obviously had that same skill set that Mitch McConnell has. But if we seen over the last several months, whether it's through Ukraine, Ukraine aid or whether it is through the immigration agreement that, you know, that grip that McConnell has had so long on Senate Republicans is slipping. Yes. And it's about the math because look at that vote for the International Aid Package a couple of weeks ago. There was a point in time where McConnell was all for this. He was the biggest advocate for money for Ukraine than anybody in the Congress, either body, either party. And then it was clear that that was not going to move because he had Republicans saying we have to do border security. So he said, okay, we'll do border security. And then Republicans kind of moved the earth underneath of him saying, no, no, we don't really want to do border security. Even though James Langford, the Republican from Oklahoma and Kristen Sennema, the independent from Arizona and Chris Murphy, the Democrat from Connecticut all put together, a pretty good bill that most people, if you're taking a, you know, a pretty serious look at this would say, yeah, that's a pretty tough bill. I mean, there was real teeth in that compared to some of the criticism that some people have leveled at it. So that went away. But then look at the math on that vote for the international aid package. He could not even get half of his conference to vote yes. There were 22 Republicans who voted yes. Okay, that's a sizable figure. But it's not the 25. That's not half of 49. You know, and so, you know, the writings on the wall here, you're not getting half. It was intimated to me in the past couple of days here that at the usual Tuesday, Senate Republican launches that there is this pro maga show that goes on, Mike Lee from Utah, JD Vance from Ohio, Ron Johnson from Wisconsin, and that some Republicans are getting tired of that. Now people say, well, would he, you know, maybe lose his grip on the Republican conference now? You know, could they, they tried to oust him now? There's some internal rules and reasons why they might talk about that and why they might even have a meeting to do that. But they're not going to prevail because that is a secret ballot. And Mitch McConnell still has the support, even though he didn't have half of the conference on the international aid package. He still has the support of most of his Republicans. And keep in mind that when we get to that vote for whomever it might be on an icy cold, blustery day in late November, maybe early December, guess what? That is a secret ballot too. And that's why it's hard to divine who might be his successor. You know, you mentioned that sort of maga show that happens at these weekly lunches. We certainly saw the influence of former president Trump as it relates to that immigration and border bill as well. You know, Mitch McConnell had worked really closely on that emerging compromise with Chuck Schumer. The two of them seemed to have an agreement. You heard, you saw that statement from McConnell where he said, this is a time to act. This is a moment and an opportunity. And then he backed away from it after the former president intimated that he did not think that this was the right strategy. I asked that because what if in the next week or two or three, the former president puts on social media, why wait till November, Republicans should pick X Senator right now to lead them? Yeah, that's a possibility. But again, senators are going to make their own decisions. And here's why we don't know how this is going to go in the fall. That universe is not formed. We have to find out which party wins the presidency, first of all. And again, that might take control of the cynics to figure out, well, it might take a while to figure out control of the Senate, too. You know, I mean, I mean, you know, it took, it took, you know, more than a week or about a week or so before we really knew who won the presidency in 2020. It took us until January, early January to determine in 2021 who would won the Senate because of a runoff in Georgia. So those factors could delay the leadership election. And let's say, you know, President Trump wins, well, that will have a, you know, an influencing factor here. Let's say President Trump does not win. President Biden wins reelection. Okay. That will have an influencing factor. Let's say, Republicans get control of the Senate. And this is where I always talk about leadership elections, Jared, are not partisan politics. They are particle politics. Who gets into leadership? It is decided at the subatomic political level. What do I mean by that? You have all these political protons and leptons all, you know, whizzing around the super collider here, the political super collider. And you don't know, it's so microscopic, you can't tell. And case in point, this is how you had, this is how you had the election of John Bainer as the majority leader before he became minority leader and speaker back in 2006. He was considered to be a dark horse in a race to succeed Tom DeLay. Kevin McCarthy was supposed to succeed, succeed John Bainer as speaker in 2015, didn't work out quite yet, worked out a little bit later, barely, and not for long. Paul Ryan didn't want the job. You know who I left off my list earlier? Tom Dashel, who became the minority and then majority leader. But this is one of my favorite stories in all politics. And it deals with leadership elections. And this, this tells you why. So it's a secret ballot. So back in 1994, I mentioned George Mitchell. He was retiring in early 1995, you know, 1994. Democrats had lost control of the Senate. So Ben Knighthorse Campbell was a then Democratic Senator, Native American Senator, wrote a Harley, had a ponytail, wrestled for the United States, and judo team in the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo. Different kind of kind of figure here. So Campbell was going to switch parties and become a Republican, which he didn't do until the spring, but Republicans had one control of the Senate. And what Campbell would try to do being a Native American is that he would always try to make sure that every vote he ever took was always consequential for Indian country. And so, you know, being in the majority party, that might have some influence, et cetera. So Campbell was going to switch parties, but he was still a Democrat in the fall of 1994. So George Mitchell was retiring and the Democrats were choosing a new Senate leader. The two candidates were Chris Dodd of Connecticut and Tom Dashel of South Dakota. Well, Tom Dashel won by one vote. Now, who do you think that Campbell voted for? He's a Connecticut Yankee or a man who represents the Sue Nation in South Dakota. You got it. And that's why you had leader Dashel and not Dodd, particle politics. So, I'm going to throw another name at you here. Two names. We've heard a little bit about Tom Cotton. He might be the MAGA candidate here. Tom Cotton has expressed interest in the leadership position. Rick Scott Republican, how floor did he win? Already challenged him once. Yes, but Rick Scott's damage goods because he did not run a very good campaign when he ran the Republican political campaign arm for Senate seats in 2022. And in fact, tried to undercut McConnell, et cetera. And some Republicans will say, look, you had your chance. That's not going to work. So who do you look at? Let's say the Republicans, and this is where I talk about the universe, has not formed, let's say the Republicans have a really good year in the fall. They flip the Senate. They just don't flip the Senate. It's 51. 49 or 52. 48. It's 55. 45 or something. Okay, they run the table. Steve Daines, Republican of Montana, who is the chair of the Republican political arm going into this cycle here and has made every single play the right way so far. In terms of the Montana Senate race, that's a competitive race there, to some degree the Ohio Senate race up and down the board, he's done all the right things. Particle politics. We will really be able to explore this conversation in the fall, but not truly until the fall of year. Returning quickly to McConnell and kind of his legacy, I know obviously there has been a lot made about his very public disagreements with former president Trump and this belief among many Senate Republicans that there needs to be a Republican leader who has a better relationship with Trump. That being said, when you look at the first couple of years of the Trump administration, what gets done without Mitch McConnell, right? I mean that tax bill, the tax cut bill, the number of justices on the Supreme Court, the federal judiciary. That was all kind of ushered in by Mitch McConnell, wasn't it? Who took a pretty big gamble by the way and initially holding off on confirming Marit Garland to a Supreme Court seat in the final months of the Obama presidency? Yes, exactly. And that's where a lot of people will talk about, despite the problem that Mitch McConnell had with President Trump and vice versa. I mean the reason, probably the most consequential thing in terms of a legacy issue for former President Trump was what happened with the Supreme Court. And that's all because of Mitch McConnell. Even months before it was clear that Donald Trump was going to be the nominee of the Republican Party in 2016, what do I mean by that? Well, we had this unexpected vacancy on the Supreme Court in February of 2016 when Antonin Scalia died suddenly in the Supreme Court justice. And within hours, without consulting his conference, and this is sometimes the criticism of McConnell, is that he doesn't consult, he makes these calls. In fact, Rick Scott said as much to me earlier today, he said we're not going to fill a Supreme Court seat in a presidential election year. Well, what happened after that? Okay, well two things, three, four things, really. So, okay, so Merrick Garland never gets a hearing, never sits on the court. Okay, so that seat is open in 2017 with President Trump. So what does he do? He gets Neil Gorsuch in. Well, there had never been a filibuster of a Supreme Court justice to sit on the court. There had been a filibuster of promoting a sitting associate justice to chief justice that was with Abe Fortis in 1968, but not to actually get somebody onto the court. Democrats were going to filibuster. And so what do McConnell do? And this is kind of taking a trick from the Harry Reid book. He basically established a new procedural precedent, a nuclear option, as it's called around Capitol Hill, to go over the filibuster, prevent a filibuster, and basically get Neil Gorsuch on the court, and then Brett Kavanaugh, remember that was quite an experience, that confirmation battle. And then the PSD was Estance came in the fall of 2020, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, God, and Elixir. Yeah, I'm shocked. There's gambling in the casino, Jared. And it was September. And they got her through just days before the election. Before the election. Yeah. And what are and what are the consequences of that? Well, through I mean, just look at what we have. Yeah, I mean, it's see, see, see, these all, all this, and it all started with Mitch McConnell's call without consulting his conference on a late Saturday afternoon in February of 2016. Seriously, that's the lineage right there. That's all Mitch McConnell, whether you like it or not. I want to finish the McConnell discussion, just kind of like I had been asked kind of about my experiences covering him. And I said, you know, I was always struck by his reverence for the Senate, like a lot of people who serve in the Senate. He really reveres the institution as an institution, the history. And I told the story, I think the first time I was in McConnell's office was probably 12, 13 years ago. I was new covering the hill. He invited a couple of radio reporters in for these sort of off camera gags, sort of round tables he did. And it was my first time in that office, which is you know, Chad used to be the Library of Congress. That is where the fire was set by the British in 2014. And McConnell took great pleasure in kind of, you know, telling me the history and showing me that fireplace where the chip is in it where there was a melee is they set the fire. And you know, you just think about the legacy of the Senate and the legacy he leaves behind. What's your McConnell story? Everybody's got one. Well, there's several. I just told you one there. One of the things I kind of enjoyed talking with him about and you know this that I have studied Scotch and Bourbon for quite a while. And I had just been to Scotland and I was sitting at a restaurant near Capitol Hill and he came out. He had a fundraiser or an event of some sort and saw that I was drinking something and he asked me if it was Bourbon. It was not Bourbon. It was a Scotch. It was Lafroy which is from Scotland. And I said, I'm sorry to disappoint you. So I saw him a couple of days later and I had just been to Scotland and I said, I want to show you something. And I had been to class over there, Scotch school. And what they do in the in the Scotch industry is they love to get their hands on a good Kentucky or Tennessee barrel. Tennessee whiskey, Jack Daniels, but Kentucky Bourbon, Heaven Hill, Buffalo Trace, you get the idea. So I was at Glenn Grant, which is a distillery in Scotland in space. And I was amazed going through this was actually part of the class going through looking at their barrels and it's Kentucky barrel of Bourbon after Kentucky barrel of Bourbon after Kentucky barrel of Bourbon. And so I showed him the picture. I said, look at this photograph, all this Kentucky bourbon here because what they do is they reuse the barrel. And he says they use our barrels to make their stuff. And I said, yes, he goes, well, that just proves that we make the best stuff. That's why they want to want our barrels. And I thought that was pretty fun. And you know, the other thing too. Kentucky is through and through. Well, President Trump used to call him Old Crow. And so the colonel figured out a way to kind of spin that because his favorite whiskey, one of his favorite bourbons is Old Crow. But more specifically because of Henry Clay, his favorite bourbon was Old Crow. And he said, I take it as a great honor to be called an Old Crow because that was Henry Clay, the statesman from Kentucky, who was a senator and was speaker of the house. Probably the best known Kentucky and politics besides Mitch McConnell, frankly. He said, I wear this as a badge of honor because Old Crow was Henry Clay's favorite whiskey. Don't think that's the way that former president Trump meant it. I wanted to ask you about one more event this week. And that is obviously, you know, we have the government shutdown averted in other kind of stopgap moving that date, that deadline around that came about after a big four meeting, the top congressional leaders meeting at the White House that I was interested in because as they emerged from that meeting, the speaker of the house came out by himself, my Johnson and said that he had a follow up one-on-one with President Biden to kind of lay out the Ukraine and border funding bills in those discussions. And you and I have kind of talked about how, you know, Johnson is still, I think, finding his way a little bit. This is a tough job. He didn't have a lot of training for it kind of thrown into it. What is his relationship like at this point with President Biden? Is that improving? Well, they really had no relationship at all. And it's hard. You know, there was a little bit of a relationship between Kevin McCarthy and President Biden because, you know, McCarthy had been in leadership before, had been the majority leader, whip, you know, minority leader, et cetera. There was something there. But Johnson, you know, drinking out of the fire hose, you know, nobody knew who my Johnson was in early October, you know. I mean, this was, this is how quickly this is, this is changed. So that's a big deal right there. So, you know, sometimes there are, you know, fellowship building exercises. And so, but that's something else that Johnson had been wanting to talk with the President individually, want some meetings. You know, there's a question about Ukraine. He's also just trying to get to know somebody. You see, and that's where I talk about, you know, McConnell and Biden, you know, it should not be lost on people that there was a relationship there. And we'll continue to be for at least the next few months. So that's, that's kind of important in that sense. But the fact that Johnson, you know, is having to deal with President Biden. And, you know, here's the other thing, you know, we don't know what's going to happen to Mike Johnson. I mean, he might, there might be a motion to vacate the chair in a minute. Okay, he might not be speaker right away. We don't know if Biden's going to be around after the election, you know, if he doesn't, when there's some speculation that maybe he doesn't truly run or become, he's running right now, obviously, but, you know, is not the nominee or stands for re-election in the fall. We don't know. So, you know, and this is where I say, you know, all this moves quickly. You know, I talk about George Mitchell, you know, this is where, you know, not all the, not not everybody is here in these positions forever. You know, and even though Mitch McConnell was there an awful long time, there have been a lot of other people who have been the majority or the minority leader of both parties. Well, as McConnell said, Father Time is undefeated. Yep, yep, we're all on the clock. Chad, appreciate the chat. As always, have a good weekend. Thank you. Tomorrow on the Fox News rundown from Washington, Super Tuesday, in a state of the union. Next week features two of the biggest political events so far this year. We will get you set for both from polling to expectations and how both nights can reshape the 2024 race. Until then, thanks for listening. I'm Jared Halper. This is the Fox News rundown from Washington.