 I'm Janice Dean. I'm Jason Chafetz. I'm Harris Faulkner. And this is the Fox News rundown. Thursday, March 21, 2024. I'm Jessica Rosenthal. Some legal wrangling puts a Texas lob back on hold that would see local law enforcement arresting undocumented immigrants. When I see it over there, they say, you know, that we have to get together and find a solution and work together. Don't turn into political issues. I'm Dave Anthony. U.S. citizens stuck in Haiti keep trying to get out to escape gang violence and overrun parts of the country. We take you to its border with the Dominican Republic. The State Department has told Americans that are traveling by land to border crossings like this one to travel out their own risk. This is gang. A lot of it is gang control territory and to keep a low profile. And I'm Jason Rant. I've got the final word on the Fox News rundown. A Texas law would make illegally crossing the border into the U.S. from Mexico a state misdemeanor punishable with jail time. Under SB 4, Texas judges would have to order undocumented migrants deported and local law enforcement would have to take migrants to the border. But this law, SB 4, was blocked by a federal judge. He said it threatens the fundamental notion that the U.S. must regulate immigration with one voice from the federal government. A panel of the fifth circuit court of appeals reversed that ruling, but Tuesday the Supreme Court said the law could be enforced while the legal arguments in this case play out. Hours later, a different panel of the fifth circuit said, no, the law cannot be enforced as they held a hearing playing out the legal arguments Wednesday. Everybody's concerned about the border. Texas has a real crisis going on here. Texas has decided that we are at the epicenter of this crisis. We are on the front line. And we are going to do something about it. Texas solicitor Aaron Nielsen told the fifth circuit court that Texas has a right to defend itself. And under any possible reading of that right, at least some applications of SB 4 are constitutional. But Justice Department attorney Daniel Tennis says Texas goes too far that they want to put people in jail for being undocumented. State judges will be making determinations about the legality of someone's entry into the United States. And that was something that this court in farmers branch and the Supreme Court in Arizona said states simply are not supposed to be doing. At a Texas policy forum summit, Texas governor Greg Abbott highlighted the number of actions the state's taken without federal approval, including building more border wall as an unprecedented number of migrants arrives. What's going on in the border is nothing short of catastrophic. While the case continues to play out and may end up back before the Supreme Court and a bid for the high court to consider the merits of the case, Mexico's president criticized the bill Wednesday saying they will not accept deportations from the Texas government calling the law dehumanizing. We can continue working with a long star operation that we would have and we can do it. Tom Schmurber is the sheriff of Maverick County, Texas. What we have is an MOU, which is a member of the understanding of the state, the troopers. Anything that is arrested here in this county, Maverick County, they take him to a better day, which is over there in the Texas and they'll process him over there and they're going to miss him straight over there and then send him to another jail. It's fine, but it is going to be different. I don't think I don't have the space in this jail right now. I don't have the power. No, the technology. It takes me 45 minutes to do one single individual here to book them. You know the immigration I've got to hear by one by one, they're going to get the company groups. Right. You just referenced. You said if you have help from a lone star, that's the operation put into effect by the governor of Texas there, Greg Abbott, you had previously said it was helpful this year when the governor under Operation Lone Star sent you guys, I guess hundreds of state law enforcement officers to that area. How did that help you and how do you foresee them maybe helping you moving forward if SB 4 is enforced? It helped me a lot at the beginning, a lot up till now because we have that understanding that they're going to help me. They're helping me right now and doing all this booking and the administration putting all these immigrants in other jails and he gave us a lot of a grant which is called long story operation grant, good money. But now the second grant that came in was given instead of to the church department, it was given to the county county attorney. So now I have to request whatever they threw him and he sometimes will not agree with what I'm asking for. I haven't had a meeting yet with a trooper or a captain made sure anything refers to how we're going to do it. So I'm still waiting. Yeah, one of the questions before the appeals court, one of the judges asked the attorney for Texas, how all do you think this law is going to be enforced? How will things work? Well, the other thing is that we are not going to deport anybody because it all depends on the judge. The what I understand is we have to apprehend one and write a mob for trespassing and then see if we've been just straighted. It's a state law. And the court takes a long time. Eventually, I want him more space for immigrants nor criminals that are in this area. Now Sheriff, the head of the border sheriff's coalition, the sheriff of Hidalgo County, he said that he thinks they aren't equipped to be immigration agents and do the kind of work that SB4 is calling for. Over the years, many sheriff's departments have had 287G programs, though, that's allowed them to work with ICE or call ICE when they're dealing with a suspected undocumented migrant. It's not the exact same as SB4, but do you agree with him that deputies aren't really equipped to do the kind of work that SB4 in particular is calling for? Well, the deputies are not really trained for immigration work, but we do work with immigration. We work with ICE, which is SSI, we work with US Marshals, and we do work with other agencies and it's very important for us to work together. And that's the main thing. We'll work with that. We have deputies, but the other deputies we have are kind of new. They'll stay long with us two or three years, and they'll change. But we do a pretty very competent, I've retarded with the board role and I've been very comfortable, competent, that we're going to have another assistance, assistance from the ICE department, of the marshals, and of course from the state, the troopers. The couple months ago, I've read that you'd said that you were afraid of the high number of people coming, especially of the certain types of people that might be among them. I wonder, can you compare what you're seeing now as a sheriff in Maverick County, 2023-2024 to what you dealt with as an agent back after 9-11? Yeah, before that, it was just a simple immigrants that come into work and I didn't make groups, you know, I can tell they were just regular people that are coming here to work and not to stay. The majority were not here to stay. But now this will change a lot. This is kind of like an open doors and people who are coming here to stay to stay. And of course with that, the criminal element took advantage and we had to drop someone through here, burglaries, and we had one situation where an immigrant from Honduras raped one of the senior citizens, a family which was like 74 years old, you know. So it changed a lot. Very different. Along the Rio Grande River in the Eagle Pass area is a 47-acre park, Shelby Park, where state law enforcement erected concertina wire on top of shipping containers, blocking migrants from entering. While there was a legal fight over access to the park between the federal government and state government, the Supreme Court eventually said the federal government, in this case, border patrol agents, could go ahead and cut down that concertina wire. But no one ever said specifically that Governor Abbott couldn't simply order troopers and state law enforcement to put more wire back up. It appears the wire hasn't been cut down and the flow of people since has shifted west to Arizona and California. I feel bad for the mayor because they had an 11-teamities that was going to happen. You should be responsible. They have a PST, a Coney PST, that's so important. Of course, I don't know if they're going to lose any money. But if it's working, that's fine. I mean, as long as it's working, they'll send them somewhere else. Don't worry, it's fine. I didn't see the words. Anything that works to stop. So what do you mean by that? Because there was a big fight between the Biden administration, right? And local officials there, state officials there, I should say, about how things were being handled at Shelby Park and the high court saying they could go ahead and cut down that concertina wire. But then it didn't end up being cut down really by the border patrol, I guess. It was left up maybe. I don't know what the status is. But even though that wasn't done by the federal government, that was done by the state government, those troopers and state folks put up that wire and put those shipping containers on there. I mean, how do you feel about that? Well, I don't think that the wire stopped anything because there was still a comment even the way it was there and so forth. I think that the state government had several meetings with the state government from Mexico. I think they had enough to do with it too, you know, not just the physical thing, you know, but I think that it worked a lot talking to another governor. And I think that the government had a meeting with the president from Mexico. So maybe they helped a lot, 100%. And I know you've been talking to people living in Maverick County, but also probably some migrants yourself or maybe you've heard from your deputies about what migrants say. What are you, I guess, what are you hearing about why people are here, where they want to go once they're here, what they want to do? They don't want to stay here in the border. You know, they don't want to stay here. They don't want to get to stay in here. They're going up north. A lot of people are saying they're going to go to New Jersey. Chicago, some other states, you know, up north, that's what they want to go. And they're asking because they're saying because they want to find a chapel there. They think there's another job. They think there's good money, but they know they're here in the border. I mean, we don't have a lot of jobs for, for the expression for the immigrant. So that's what I hear that they want to keep on going for north. And are you hearing that a lot of people are not just from like northern triangle countries and, you know, Mexico, these folks are from all over the world. We've seen that in a little video, but I mean, yeah, I said to them all over the world. And the majority of the people that are coming in are having those skills. So I don't know, I think they're going to have a hard time trying to find a job. The only job that's going to find are going to be hard labor. I mean, but not the hard ones skills. Have you, has this been frustrating at all to you seeing the high numbers of people or watching the political fight in DC, you know, between Congress and the White House? Have you been frustrated? And what would you, I guess what would you want to have happen? What I see over there, DC, you know, that we have to get together and find a solution and work together. I mean, don't turn into political issue because the situation, it's already out of control. So and the right person officers like us, we're in the middle, you know, trying to see what's going to happen. So if they can work together, it really, really worked together. I think they would have a solution right away. And this problem was not, but it had to take the two parties to find something, some kind of solution. Did you think that border bill that the Republicans said what didn't go far enough? Did you, would you have liked to have seen that past or no? Well, I don't know the details, but if that was the solution, I'm hoping, you know, for the situation to keep on going on and on and on. You know, so I don't know if they were waiting for the elections or something like that, but still we have months ahead of us. Sheriff Tom Schwarver, thank you so much for joining us. You're welcome. Thank you very much for having me. Fox News commentary coming up. Parts of Haiti are lawless with no government in place anymore. After the Prime Minister who's not even in Haiti resigned. Oh, yeah. People of Haiti wake up. That man's among the many residents distraught in Haiti's capital port of Prince where gangs have taken control, fighting each other in violence that's left innocent civilians among the dead. The situation hates 80 faces as tragic. It's a crisis of epic proportion that's been building for a long time now and has no easy solutions to it. Republican Senator Marco Rubio posted this on X. Our number one priorities are number one US citizens and their loved ones who are there may be trapped and able to get out. It's important that we secure their well-being. We're also concerned, obviously, for the poor people of Haiti who are suffering, but again, there's not a lot of good options in the short term when you have roving gangs of maniacs who are killing and slaughtering people. The hope is that they'll be able to bring some stability there through some security force that is supposed to come eventually from Kenya. The meantime several hundred Americans have found a way out, but it is not easy. We take you now to the border there. So this is the main border crossing out of Haiti into the Dominican Republic in Dabaung. Ryan Yannes is a Fox News national correspondent near a Dominican market where Haitians can go to find much-needed food and supplies. Super important for the Haitians considering what's happening in their country, but also it is an exit point for foreigners, particularly Americans, to get out of Haiti. So what we've been seeing here is a very controlled situation, the Dominican military and their version of the border patrol is cessed front, has the situation controlled here. We have not seen a mass exodus of Haitians in this area. We are about a six hour drive away from Porter Prince and about a couple hours away from Cap Hation. So these are the two cities in which we've seen a lot of the action, but we've seen about 400 Americans who have used this border crossing to leave Haiti and the State Department has told Americans that are traveling by land to border crossings like this one to travel out their own risk. This is a lot of it is gang control territory and to keep a low profile. Yeah, let's get into what's happened in Haiti. You mentioned the Capitol. Porter Prince is where the biggest problems have occurred with gangs overrunning the streets and overrunning neighborhoods taking over. Is there much government left in Haiti in the port in the Capitol? No, as a matter of fact, there aren't really any elected officials at all that are in any position of power to govern. So right now what you have is a Haitian capital that is 80 percent under the control of gangs and it's not just one gang, it's many gangs up to 200 rival gangs are now in control of the Haitian capital of Porter Prince. And the one name everyone talks about is barbecue Jimmy Sherze is the top gang leader reportedly and his name is barbecue. That's his nickname. And so there are fractions we are already seeing of different gangs that are taken to the streets and not only are they attacking one another, they're attacking civilian infrastructure schools, police stations, government buildings have all come under attack as these gangs battle one another. And the latest crisis really started on February 29th when barbecue the gang leader started to launch these attacks against government infrastructure in a way in which there were left, you know, bodies were left on the public streets and the crisis really kind of took a new foothold. And he did this to force the prime minister, Ariel Henri, to resign. And so the prime minister said that he would, while he was outside of the country, he would resign once a transnational council of Haitians that represent different political groups who's put together to choose a new president and effectively choose a new government. There is no acting real parliament, no acting president or prime minister at this point with the resignation of Ariel Henri that can control the Haitian people or the government and bring peace. And so in that power vacuum, you've got 200 gangs that are rivaling one another and this is where you're getting the violence. And there is no guarantee that these gangs are going to respect any new government that's put in place. How is the US dealing with that? How can we get Americans or others who were trapped there in the capital out? We did have the military go in to deal with embassy employees, right? And staff at the embassy, but that's all the military's done. Am I right? Yeah, I mean, that is, and there are lies the interesting situation here with how the State Department is handling this because the initial conversation last week was towards the end of last week was, you know what, Americans, we have told you for the last four years, it is a level for State Department warning. Do not travel to Haiti. We've warned you. There were no active evacuation plans last week to get Americans out. And then over the weekend, all of a sudden we saw the one in only charter flight as of now from the State Department, organized by the State Department, take off from Capacien with over 30 Americans on board. But since then, all we've heard from the State Department is that they are continuing to explore safe evacuation routes out of Haiti. But there are about a thousand Americans who remain stranded in Haiti. The Marines have gone into Haiti, but only to evacuate non-essential staff from the Port of Prince U.S. embassy. So ultimately, you've got American civilians who have been left to their own devices to travel at their own risk by land or to reach out to rescue nonprofit organizations like Project Dynamo or like we've seen with Republican Cory Mills who took it upon himself, a combat veteran to lead two rescue operations to save at least 23 Americans. So at this moment, the State Department over the last five days continues to say that they're exploring evacuation options, but we have not seen any new charter flights of any significance. And the U.S. says they're now trying to get more evacuation options secured between the Port of Prince and into the Dominican Republic, the capital of Santo Domingo. It's closest neighbor and from there Americans would then have to on their own figure out a way to get out of DR. Obviously, Haiti's a poor country and they've had a lot of problems in the past with hunger and humanitarian crises. This certainly is going to add to that. Can any humanitarian supplies get into Port of Prince or even capheixion? Yeah, the United Nations has opened, there have been containers of humanitarian aid in the UN. We have a way to get containers of aid inside of Port of Prince and to Haiti, but the United Nations has been warning for a while now that they are in dire need of more money and of more help. It's something like $640 million with a humanitarian aid is what the UN says Haiti needs and they've only received less than 10% of that money that the UN says this nation needs to provide the kind of aid to nations who desperately need it right now. We're talking about 1.4 million Haitians who face famine, over 360,000 Haitians who have been displaced in their own country. You've got the violence, you've got no working government and you've got a situation now where it's dire. You speak to Haitians here in the market and Daha Bum Dominican Republic again and this is the location where we are is really critical because there is a buy national market that allows Haitian migrants to come in for a day, a couple days a week and buy and sell the goods they desperately need and they come by the thousands and go right back to their country. It's an important market for them right now but we spoke to some Haitians there who said frankly they do want an international police force to go in and take care of the gangs and you can also see on their faces they are tired. It is one woman told me she's got six kids and she lives in one room, she has no house and she says it's just crisis after crisis. They put it in a new president and then there's another president after. She was just so exhausted by it all but she is still pleading with the international community to help and then Dominican say the international community has to come in and help and then they hopefully that the Haitian government, a new government can work with the DR, it's closest neighbor to kind of turn the page and try to get after what has been just crisis after crisis particularly over the last 15 years. Brian who would lead an international force that would go into Haiti? I mean I know that Caribbean leaders are working to try to come up with some sort of a transitional government. How much does the U.S. get involved in this international force? Yeah absolutely this is a U.S. led effort to bring Caribbean leaders, there was a conference in Jamaica in which they decided to negotiate with Haitian political groups and to create a transnational council who then will decide how to move forward with general elections which have not taken place in Haiti since 2016 and how to move forward with installing or putting in a new president and a new government. So that is being led in part by the U.S. and with other Caribbean nations and then in terms of the international police force that is being led by Kenya. Prime Minister Ariel Henry was actually visiting Kenya at the time in which all of this started here on February 29th and he was talking to them and pleading with them to bring an international force. He had agreed last year that they were going to be doing this but it has stalled for various reasons. Funding and concerns domestically with Kenya about whether or not they should be even doing this and why they would be doing this. Even recently there's been some concerns about U.S. funding for this force but the Kenyans still say the Kenyan president says that they still plan on leading an international police force but there are no guarantees here and there is a lot of skepticism that a new transnational council will get it done that they will come to some consensus and that a new government can ever be formed that will get the respect of some 200 rival gangs. So a lot of questions left here and you hear and all of that also logistical questions as to how this is going to happen because the Dominicans want nothing to do with getting involved in any kind of an armed conflict or even the appearance of an armed conflict with their neighbor. There is a concern all the chaos and Haiti could lead to an exodus of Haitians fleeing to the U.S. We've seen that before. You may recall the controversy in 2021 when more than 10,000 Haitian migrants gathered under a bridge at the Mexican border in Del Rio, Texas. Republican Florida governor, Rondis Santos, has deployed crews off the coast to intercept any boats carrying Haitian migrants. Florida Fish and Wildlife Officers, interdicted a vessel that had 25 illegal immigrants, potential illegal immigrants from Haiti in their boat and their vessel. They had firearms. They had drugs. They had night vision gear. Governor DeSantis has also threatened to fly Haitian migrants to Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts, something he's controversially done before with other migrants who are here illegally. Absolutely we can see an end flux. It hasn't happened yet. The Dominican border authorities here tell you it has not happened yet, but that always remains a possibility. As that situation gets worse, people are going to be wanting a way out. There are up to a million, maybe two million. There isn't really an official number of Haitian migrants who have found life and are living in the Dominican Republic because they simply cannot live in Haiti and there's been over 100,000, about 150,000 Haitians who've come to the U.S. over the last couple of years. So Florida is preparing for a potential exodus, but so is the Dominican Republic. The president here, I spent the last couple of years building a border wall, 100 miles worth of border wall that we visited, and you also have the Dominican government continuing its deportations. The United States is concerned about an exodus, but you better believe that Haiti's closest neighbor, the Dominican Republic, is extra concerned and they have made order security a high priority. So right now, no mass exodus, but they are prepared for anything at this point with the gangs still very much in control of Haiti's capital. Brian Yannis, Fox News National Correspondent. It was a front row seat to the crisis in Haiti right along the border in Daha Bone in the Dominican Republic. Brian, thanks very much for joining us. Really appreciate it. Thank you so much. Mate the American who was the founding father that put the work in working man. George Taylor was born in Northern Ireland around 1716 and immigrated to America where he became an Ironsmith in Lehigh, Pennsylvania. Taylor originally wanted to study medicine, but like many other Irishmen found work as an indentured servant from the Durham Iron Works on the Delaware River. Empowered by the ideals of American independence, he worked tirelessly. Shouveling coal into a blistering furnace and eventually worked his way up to a manager position. According to the Durham Historical Society, Taylor's skills undeniably surpassed Iron Works, which caught the eye of the Iron Mill owners wife and savage. Taylor assumes a position as the head of the operation and soon married the recently widowed Anne the next year. Aside from running the mill, Taylor was also a member of Pennsylvania's committee of correspondence and even served as captain for the state militia. When America finally won its independence from Britain, Taylor was one of 56 men who signed the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776. He then utilizes expertise of the Iron industry to assist the continental army in developing cannons, cannonballs, and other military equipment. Taylor forsaked financial gain to completely dedicate his life to fortifying and independent America. After contracting a deadly illness, he retired from public service and later passed away on February 23, 1781 in Easton, Pennsylvania. He was 65 years old. George Taylor's story embodies the American dream and represents the contributions of Irish Americans to the forging of our Great Nation. Full up a chair and join me, Rachel Campos, Tuffy. And me, former US Congressman Sean Duffy, as we share our perspective on the discussions happening at kitchen tables across America. Download from the kitchen table, the duffyspatfoxnewspotcasts.com, or wherever you download podcasts. Subscribe to this podcast at Foxnewspotcasts.com. It's time for your Fox News commentary. Jason Rance. What's on your mind? As the crisis that our border escalates, Democrats are working tirelessly to deflect attention from the alarming reality that illegal immigrants are committing crimes in American cities coast to coast. Democrats are acutely aware that every time an illegal immigrant commits a crime, the spotlight inevitably falls on their complicity. In the aftermath of the tragic murder of Lake and Riley, a young nursing student allegedly by an illegal immigrant from Venezuela, Democrat mouthpieces rushed to peddle the same tired narrative that illegal immigrants commit fewer crimes than American citizens. NPR and Glenn Kessler of the Washington Post recently paraded studies claiming lower incarceration rates among male immigrants compared to native born individuals. No one is arguing that illegal immigrants commit more crimes than Americans, unless of course you count their unlawful entry. The issue is that they commit crimes at all while being in the country legally. These crimes wouldn't occur if our border security was effective. In my latest book, What's Killing America? Inside the Radical Left's tragic destruction of our cities, out right now on Amazon, I expose the fallacy of data-driven claims about illegal immigrant crimes. Take for instance, the astonishing number of illegal immigrants charged with crimes in West Coast states like Washington, Oregon, and California. Are you ready for it? The number is zero. Thanks to sanctuary state policies that prohibit law enforcement from inquiring about citizenship status. When you're charged with shoplifting in San Francisco, hit and run at Portland or assault in Seattle, citizenship status is not ascertained due to sanctuary policies. This lack of documentation creates a distorted picture of crime rates, especially in sanctuary cities where cases potentially leading to deportation are avoided. When an illegal immigrant commits a crime and avoids jail time through diversion programs, their citizenship status remains undocumented. Now if crimes are intentionally left unpunished to conceal citizenship status, how can we trust the crime rate data? Furthermore, the influx of unknown illegal immigrants crossing the border complicates accurate assessments of their crime rates compared to American cities. While Democrats downplayed these crimes, innocent Americans suffer the consequences. Almost this month, a tragic incident received little national attention. An illegal immigrant with a lengthy criminal history is accused of killing a 27-year-old Washington State trooper, Christopher Gatt, who left behind a wife and two-year-old daughter. According to court documents, Raul Benitez Santana admitted to drinking and smoking weed before allegedly crashing into the trooper's vehicle north of Seattle on Interstate 5 early one week and morning. Ice confirmed Santana is in the country illegally from Mexico. This unclear when he entered this country illegally, but he served jail time twice since 2013 and was initially charged with a crime that would have made him eligible for deportation if only anyone was legally allowed to ask about a citizenship status. This is just one example of how illegal immigration leads to preventable tragedies. Democrats open border agenda has real consequences, as more innocent Americans fall victim to crimes that could have been avoided with stricter immigration policies. It's time for Democrats to acknowledge the dangers posed by illegal immigration and prioritize the safety of American citizens over political agendas. The denial of this reality only perpetuates the cycle of crime and victimization in our communities. I'm Jason Rantz, author of What's Killing America Inside the Radical Left's tragic destruction of our cities. For the Fox News Podcasts Network.