 Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. Donald Trump goes 14 of 15 in Republican primary contest last night and forces Nikki Haley out of the race. They call it Super Tuesday for a reason. This is a big one. Plus, investors await Fed-chair Jerome Powell's comments on the state of the U.S. economy as he heads to Capitol Hill. And why Ukraine is taking its fight against Russia all the way to Sudan. It's Wednesday, March 6. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal, and here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. And we begin with a Wall Street Journal exclusive, as we've learned that former South Carolina governor Nikki Haley is dropping out of the Republican primary race. This comes just hours after Super Tuesday handed hundreds of delegates to Haley's rival, former president Donald Trump, who won all of the night's GOP contests except for Vermont. And joining me now with more is Wall Street Journal politics editor Ben Pershing. Ben Tellus, what do we know at this hour? So later this morning we expect Nikki Haley will suspend her presidential campaign. She'll do it in remarks in her home state of South Carolina. People familiar with her plans tell us. And most importantly, I think she won't immediately endorse Donald Trump for the nomination. She's going to say that she wants Donald Trump to try to win the support of her supporters. And then I think down the line she'll make a decision about whether she actually wants to go ahead and back in. Ben, you have covered primary fights before. Is this setting up some sort of potential reconciliation? Maybe something that could happen at the Republican convention this summer? It's a good question. You know, back in 2016, Ted Cruz famously didn't endorse Trump. And at the convention kind of dramatically said, oh, you should vote your conscience. It was a big, a big split that you don't see almost always people who lose and these primaries end up endorsing the nominee. And it's pretty notable that Haley's holding back on that. And I think it's a good indication of just how raw this race got at the end. Yeah, was that her motivation Ben for getting out of the race to avoid widening any fissures within the party? Or was this, I don't know, out of necessity, a lack of resources? Do we have a sense? There wasn't any path for her to keep going forward. You know, her team was really watching the Super Tuesday results to see if there were any glimmers of hope places where she overperformed a path forward. And she only won one state and she came pretty short everywhere else. And she had some money. But there was just no sign that it was going to get any better for her next week or the week after. Trump was going to lock up the nomination, whatever she did. I think it made sense for her at this point to just decide to bow out. Ben, you mentioned earlier this race getting kind of raw near the end. And Haley's speeches did get increasingly heated in recent weeks where any bridges burned here in the final stretch of the primary for her early on in the race. You saw her try to take a balanced approach and maybe not alienate Trump supporters because she knows that's a big chunk of the party. And later on in the race, she really got emboldened to say, look, this guy can't win. I can be Biden and he can't his legal problems are a huge burden on the party. And we all have to be sort of honest about it upfront. And she kind of relished the role of being like a truth teller in the party. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal politics editor Ben Pershing. Ben, thank you so much. Thanks for having me. Let's turn back now to the super Tuesday results and Donald Trump's near sweep in 15 different contests last night. Molly ball is the journal's senior political correspondent. She's been stand up tonight looking at results coming in from all over the country. Molly, the main storyline here has got to be Trump's success pretty much across the board now in a position to look past this primary fight. Trump's victory speech was quite significant because we really did hear him pivot toward the general election start to make that general election argument really lay the groundwork for the campaign that lies ahead against Joe Biden. We heard him focus on the issues focus on the economy focus primarily on immigration. We know those are the issues that are on top of voters minds and issues on which voters broadly trust Donald Trump more than they trust Joe Biden. We heard him talk about unity both in terms of unifying the Republican party, although he did not mention Nikki Haley or really even allude to their being any competition within the party. And then also talking about unifying the country as he claimed was the case when he was president. The polls would suggest otherwise his tenure as president was quite divisive, but he's talking about something that a lot of voters are yearning for in terms of bringing the country together. And we can expect to hear him make that argument as he campaigns against Joe Biden. So with this speech and with Joe Biden state of the union speech on Thursday, it's really this week represents the moment when I think both candidates are pivoting toward the general election and starting to make that case to the electorate as they look toward November. Turning to the other side of the aisle here, one thing we've been looking at coming out of Michigan's democratic primary last month was whether president Biden's vote share was suffering at all. If there are any signs we could spot of internal frustration among Democrats around his handling in particular of the Israel Gaza war did that show up at all last night. It showed up a little bit. You know, not every state offers this uncommitted option in the ones that did it was a pretty small share of the vote with the exception of Minnesota where it looks like Biden may have lost as much as 20% of the vote to that uncommitted option. That is a state somewhat similar to Michigan, obviously geographically and demographically. And Michigan, there was a quite organized campaign on the part of Arab American voters to get people to vote uncommitted as a protest vote against Biden specifically in protest of his Israel policies. That may have reared its head as well in Minnesota, but we don't see broadly across the board that Biden is facing significant dissent from within his party rather ironically given that we see in polls that many Democrats wish he weren't the nominee. We still do not see a large chunk of his party either gravitating toward another option such as the Minnesota Congressman Jean Phillips or coming out to make that protest vote against him. And Molly, let's quickly type a few other loose ends from the night, both the House and Senate back in DC are hanging in the balance and there were a number of races around the country that those watching Congress closely had their eye on last night. Take us through any of the highlights that jumped out to you. Well, the big game here is the California Senate primary where we've been watching to see whether the front runner Democrat Adam Schiff, who is a congressman from Southern California, whether his competition in the general election would be a fellow Democrat or Republican. California has a so called jungle primary where the top two vocators, regardless of party advanced to the general election. And there were a couple of other well known House Democrats competing with Schiff, but a late surge by a Republican candidate, Steve Garvey, a former star baseball player for the LA Dodgers. He made a late surge into contention thanks in part to a lot of help from Adam Schiff's campaign. And that was a successful gambit shift will now face the Republicans, Steve Garvey in November that I think will lead Democrats to breathe a sigh of relief because it means that in such a solidly blue status California. Schiff is the overwhelming favorite against a Republican and likely won't have to spend a lot of money freeing up those donors to spend on other races. The one concern, I think, for Democrats is that may mean that there are less coattails for shift down ballot. California also has a number of competitive house races. Most of those are still out as of early Wednesday morning. We don't know exactly how they're going to shake out in terms of the candidates emerging from the primary. That was Wall Street Journal senior political correspondent Molly Ball. Molly, thanks. Thank you. Coming up, Ukraine is now fighting Russia in Sudan in a bid to cut off Moscow's funding. And Fed Chair Jerome Powell is set to testify today on Capitol Hill. We've got those stories and more after the break. Hey, what's news fans? Listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show ad free on Amazon music included with your prime membership? That's right. All your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon music ad free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown ad free as well. Amazon music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most ad free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your prime membership to start listening download the Amazon music app for free or visit Amazon dot com slash what's news. That's Amazon dot com slash what's news. It's just that easy. In other news moving the world today, Australia could be heading toward recession as its economy continues to slow. Market reporter Anna Hurtinstein said the country's 0.2% growth number for the fourth quarter adds to concerns that a hard landing is coming, especially if the reserve bank of Australia delivers on its plans to hike interest rates. The Australian Central Bank's treasure told reporters that the risks to the Australian economy are actually shifting from inflation to growth. So this is a rising concern. According to an economist where it's actually seeing some signals of this already on a per capita basis economic activity has slowed over the past year, the most in 33 years. He is in stark contrast to the strong US economy, which Fed chair Jerome Powell will be giving his take on later when he begins two days of congressional testimony. So what people are looking for is signals on timing. One could we potentially see interest rates start to come down for this particular testimony. Economists are broadly expecting him to deliver the same message that we've heard from a lot of officials recently. And that is that there's no rush to cut rates at this time. The situation is still at an elevated level. And we're hearing that they're looking for more proof, more data that's showing that it's coming down on our system all the way. Powell's statement is due at 10 a.m. Eastern. We are exclusively reporting that the front lines of the war between Ukraine and Russia now extend to Africa. According to several Ukrainian soldiers involved in the operation, Ukrainian commandos have been sent to Sudan to support the country's military ruler in a bloody civil war. And General Ukraine reporter Ian Levit told me about Kyiv's rationale for doing so. So Ukraine had several reasons for sending troops into Sudan. First of all, they've had a relationship with the Sudanese military since shortly after the Russian invasion in 2022. And so for a time, they were getting a significant number of weapons from Sudan, which is one of the most heavily armed countries in Africa. That was before Sudan's own civil war broke out. But more importantly, the Wagner paramilitary group has been mining gold in Sudan and in neighboring countries and using that to fund the war in Ukraine. So for Ukraine, this was an opportunity to really cut off the supply of gold to Moscow that's been helping fund the war in Ukraine. And to make it more costly for Russia both economically and militarily to pursue these kinds of interests. Though Ian, this is a strategy that's not without risks. The US has said that both sides, including the one that Ukraine is supporting, have committed war crimes in Sudan. And they've pretty explicitly warned other countries against getting involved. Egypt has been sending weapons to the Sudanese military and the United Arab Emirates has been sending weapons to the rebels. But as far as I'm aware, Ukraine is the first foreign country to actually send troops into the conflict. This obviously potentially risks alienating allies. In an interview, the head of Ukraine's military intelligence agency declined to comment on whether he deployed troops to Sudan. A spokesman for Ukraine's president didn't respond to requests for comment, nor did Russia's defense ministry. Meanwhile, Venezuela has announced that it will hold an election in July with current president Nicholas Maduro likely to seek a third, six-year term. Opposition candidates, however, some of whom are in exile are banned from running or prohibited from holding office, with analysts saying that Maduro wouldn't call an election without the certainty of winning. This comes as the US in October agreed to lift sanctions against Venezuela's oil industry in exchange for democratic concessions that the Maduro regime has since backpedaled on. Those sanctions are up for reconsideration in April. And in a seismic move in the college sports world, Dartmouth's men's basketball team has voted in favor of forming a union. The National Labor Relations Board says 13 of the team's 15 players voted to join the service employees' international union yesterday. After an NLRB official concluded the players are employees, given Dartmouth's ability to control the work they perform and because the players perform that work for compensation. Dartmouth immediately filed a request for that decision to be reviewed with the spokesman saying that, quote, Classifying these students as employees simply because they play basketball is as unprecedented as it is inaccurate. But as journal sports reporter Lane Higgins told us the debate about whether college athletes are playing or working for their schools is far from over. There is another NLRB case that is currently ongoing in California against USC, the PAC-12 conference and the NSTAA that could potentially be broader than this case at Dartmouth. Because right now the Dartmouth ruling, if it is upheld all the way to the Supreme Court, would only affect a handful of private universities and the athletic programs they have. And the vast majority of universities in DB-1, especially at the top level, are public. But the case out in California could potentially apply to every university in the country. While the NCAA has long insisted that college athletes are unpaid amateur students, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled in 2021 that strict NCAA rules. And that strict NCAA limits on compensation in the form of education-related benefits, violated antitrust laws. And that is what's news for Wednesday morning. Today's show was produced by Kate Bullivant and Hadi Moyer. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kylhoff and I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a news show. And until then, thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your Prime Membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.