 Did you know you can listen to this show ad-free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. The latest US jobs numbers show strong hiring, but also signs of cooling. And where are the nation's job hotspots? Turns out they're moving. More broadly, we are seeing a shift when we're talking to geographic patterns. We're also seeing more of a suburban shift too. Plus, a probe finds Colorado's star DNA analyst intentionally manipulated data. It's Friday, March 8th. I'm Ann Marie for Tolley for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. Let's start with the jobs numbers on this jobs Friday. A US hiring boom continued in February, though there are signs of cooling. The Labor Department set employers added 275,000 jobs. Far surpassing the 198,000 economists had expected. Unemployment ticked up a notch to 3.9% and wage growth slowed. Reporter David Uberty has more details on today's report. The major sectors that led jobs growth were namely health care, government and food services, so restaurants and bars. Additionally, and this is sort of an interesting cross tab that we found deeper in the data, a lot of the gains in the US labor force over the last year have actually been driven by a growing immigrant workforce. So these are foreign-born workers, as opposed to American native-born workers. That's just an interesting footnote that has really helped fuel some of this labor market expansion. The Goldilocks report, that is not too hot, not too cold, just like in the fairy tale, also supports the Fed's rate cut outlook. Here's David again. The key takeaways are that the US economy remains pretty strong, and importantly, it is walking this very fine line between being too strong, which could help fuel a rebound in inflation, and also in the other hand, slowing down too fast, which could lead to a recession. All of this suggests that the economy is making progress to the proverbial soft landing. Investors across the country expect the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates in the coming months, and nothing in this report really suggests that they will deviate from that at this point. On yesterday's show, we told you about an unfolding DNA scandal in Colorado that posed a threat to thousands of criminal cases. Today we have an update to that story. A preliminary investigation has found Colorado's star DNA scientist, Ivonne Missy Woods, intentionally manipulated evidence for years. The review did not find that Woods falsified DNA matches or fabricated DNA profiles, but the report said Woods omitted material facts and records, tampered with DNA testing results and violated lab policies. It said at least 652 cases she handled between 2008 and 2023 were affected. Woods's lawyer said she never created or falsely reported any ex-culpatory DNA evidence or gave false testimony resulting in wrongful convictions or imprisonment. He said she is cooperating with the ongoing investigation. And former President Donald Trump says he secured a nearly $92 million bond to cover a defamation judgment of more than $83 million that he owes to writer E. Jean Carroll. Trump is still facing severe financial burdens. He's also been ordered to pay $355 million in penalties, stemming from a civil fraud case in New York. The interest continues to grow daily and the total amount now stands at around $454 million. Coming up from the job market to the new job hotspots, where to find them after the break. Hey what's news fans, listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? That's right, all your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music Add Free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown Add Free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most Add Free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your prime membership. To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free or visit Amazon dot com slash what's news? That's Amazon dot com slash what's news? It's just that easy. The nation's hottest job spots are shifting to sun belt cities before the pandemic. The West was leading jobs growth and analysis by the economic innovation group found employment there was growing by 2.3%. The highest rate among the nation's regions, but that's changed, especially after a series of tech layoffs as a last spring the sun belt region from the Southwest to the southeast was leading the pack joining me now with more is our workplace reporter to ping Chen. Welcome back to ping. Thanks for having me. So what sun belt cities are most attractive and why? Yeah, so we've seen jobs growth really boom in a number of cities across the sun belt. Some of the places that are seeing the highest degree of growth or Phoenix. Huntsville, Alabama. We've seen Albuquerque really do well places like Las Vegas to a spectrum of cities, but what they've gotten common is more space often lower cost of labor and in many cases fewer building restrictions as well. You know, to ping Phoenix struck me because I went there a couple of months ago and I saw that enormous semiconductor factory that the Taiwanese company TSMC is building curious what industries are moving out to sun belt cities. Yeah, that's absolutely part of it with the Biden administration's emphasis on trying to push domestic manufacturing. We are seeing certain industries, whether it's semiconductor to battery production, a lot of those industries bulking up production in cities across the sun belt and Phoenix certainly you know would be among some of the beneficiaries. What we're seeing is really just with the rise of remote work that's enabled a lot of workers obviously to pick up and move and in other cases companies to expand their footprints in some of these other areas. If you look at the companies that have been relocating their headquarters in recent years tech really tops the list and we do see a number of tech companies moving self or moving farther east and trying to find a base where they can operate. So as with lower costs sometimes with a feeling of an easier business environment and also a number of companies saying that when they are looking to set up maybe a broader footprint elsewhere thinking to about sustainability and how to find a place where they can grow and continue to expand and have sort of the talent pool with the depth that they need to continue to recruit and to grow in the coming years. So that brings us in a way to the cities that are now losing out on new jobs. What are some of the cities that are experiencing people leaving now for jobs elsewhere and why? When we look at the cities that have been seeing a lump in jobs growth and specifically I'm looking now at a list of the top cities or metro areas that have seen declines and job postings. We're really looking at some of kind of the traditional superstar cities. If you look at San Francisco Bay Area it's seen about a 25% drop in the percentage of job posting since 2020 that's according to data from indeed other cities up there also include areas around Seattle San Jose and so we're seeing quite clearly here a lot of the influence of tech layoffs and that kind of downturn. Also just more broadly cities that have traditionally been home to a lot of knowledge workers that have more recently obviously been able to work elsewhere and often in cheaper areas and so it's sort of a combination of both workers in some instances leaving and in other cases their employers choosing to move to as we just talked about. What does all this mean for those big cities like San Francisco that once drove jobs growth? One thing that's really striking in the reporting and in what economists have to say about some of these statistics is just that when we think about the way that growth in the US especially in a lot of innovation sectors has taken place over the past decade in the states. It's been often a really lopsided kind of growth concentrated in some of those cities like San Francisco which obviously has benefits of course but also pretty substantive drawbacks not only for the cities themselves which have often struggled with issues of affordability quite clearly but for the rest of the country too right it's not necessarily the healthiest of things to have a handful of metros really commanding the lion's share of growth. And so there's a lot of hope embodied in some of these figures when you do see the shift in both job opportunities going south and also some of the flattening of the pay bans nationally I mean these all speak to an economy in the US that potentially looks a lot more distributed and potentially also can both help some of the areas that have traditionally really been dealing with some of the benefits. But also the challenges of growth and also help a lot of places in the United States that have more traditionally been left behind that's our workplace reporter to ping chin. Apple has reversed a ban on epic games that have prevented the video game maker from building its own app store in Europe. The two have been battling for years over Apple's control over third party software on its devices today's reversal signals Apple could be softening at stance as it faces new regulations in the European Union according to people familiar with the matter the US justice department is expected to file an antitrust lawsuit in the coming weeks accusing Apple of monopolistic practices related to its interactions with outside companies. And the US military says it will resume flights of the V-22 Osprey aircraft hundreds of Ospreys were grounded in December following a fatal crash off the coast of Japan that killed eight US service members. The $90 million aircraft is a workhorse for the US military but it's been involved in accidents that have killed dozens of US service members leading to concerns over its safety and design. The US Navy said today the grounding was lifted after a thorough safety review and maintenance and procedural changes. And finally this Sunday the film world is coming together for the Academy Awards. So what a moviegoers think about the Oscar nominations. Well the Wall Street Journal and the data intelligence company morning consult pulled more than 4,400 adults in the US to find out. Here's our entertainment reporter John Jürgensen. The other inheimer was the story of Hollywood last year. And behind those movies did something like more than 2 billion at the worldwide box office which was just bananas. Barbie was by far the biggest box office draw but people really kind of gravitate to Oppenheimer as quote unquote high quality film and Oscar worthy film. In our poll it ranked number one almost across the board in terms of its quality level what people thought was a high quality film. And it was the one that people seemed to say was the most enjoyable as well. Obviously Barbie we found not only at the box office but in our poll results was the most scene of all the films. And people really rally behind Margot Robbie too as an actress in our poll. But I think they all see it as kind of a pop film and they seem to be aligned with Oscar voters and thinking that Oppenheimer is the one that's kind of deserving of the Oscar gold. I only saw one of those block fosters it was Barbie and I loved it and I am definitely looking forward to Ryan Gosling performing I'm just Ken on Oscars night. And that's what's news for this week. Today's show was produced by Pierre Bienname and Anthony Vancey. What's news is hosted by me and Marie for Tolly and Luke Forgis. Additional support this week from Tali Arbel, Julie Chang and Cordelia James. Michael Laval wrote our theme music. Our supervising producers are Sandra Kylhoff and Michael Kusmedi's. Aisha Almuslim is our development producer. Scott Saloway and Chris Sinsley are our deputy editors. And Philana Patterson is the Wall Street Journal's head of news audio. Tomorrow you can look out for our weekly markets wrap up what's news and markets. And if you're in a US state that observes daylight saving time don't forget to set your clocks one hour ahead. Before Sunday morning when we'll be answering your questions about the streaming wars and the battle for your subscriptions in what's news Sunday. We'll be back with our regular show on Monday morning. Thanks for listening. Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.