 Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. President Biden shifts into campaign mode in a fiery state of the Union address. What makes our moment rare is a freedom of democracy, a rendered attack at both at home and overseas at the very same time. Plus the US military plans to construct a pier off the coast of Gaza to speed the flow of humanitarian aid. And on International Women's Day we'll look at how cuts to government spending threaten progress on gender equality. It's Friday, March 8th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal and here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. Drawing sharp contrasts with congressional Republicans and with Donald Trump, President Biden used last night's state of the Union address to warn Americans that their freedoms are at risk at home and that America's adversaries are on the march overseas. With several Supreme Court justices looking on, Biden confronted the court over its 2022 decision to eliminate the right to an abortion, invoking an issue that has succeeded in driving Democrats to the polls. Those bragging about overturning the road we would have no clue about the power of women, but they found out when reproductive freedom was on the ballot, we won in 2022 and 2020 and we'll win again in 2024. Standing in the House of Representatives, Biden also referenced the January 6th 2021 Capitol riot, accusing Republicans of undermining US democracy with false claims of election fraud and telling them that you can't love our country only when you win. Turning abroad, Biden urged members of Congress to back another round of military aid for Ukraine. That could hinge on Republican House Speaker Mike Johnson bringing up a Senate approved aid package for a vote, something that he says he won't be pressured into doing given its omission of certain border security measures. Without naming Johnson, who was seated behind him, Biden criticized Republicans for backing away from a border deal negotiated by the White House and bipartisan lawmakers only after Trump came out against it. The result was a bipartisan bill with the toughest set of border security forms we've ever seen. Oh, you don't think so? Oh, you don't like that bill, huh? That conservatives got together and said it was a good bill? I'll be darned. That's amazing. Well, another of the night's most memorable moments also centered on immigration when Biden was interrupted by Georgia Republican Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene, who raised the name of nursing student Laken Riley, who was killed late last month, allegedly by an immigrant who police say entered the country illegally. Challenge to say her name Biden held up a pin with her name on it described her as having been killed by a quote illegal and said that he empathized with her parents having lost children himself. Damian Paleta is the journal's Washington coverage chief. This is something that Republicans have been kind of pushing him to do and he did. So I think in a way it showed that he was not trying to run away from this issue. He was not trying to run away from some of the problems caused by the border crisis, but he's asking them to help with solutions. Now whether it's going to be enough, whether it's too little too late, it'll take some time to tell. But the way that he kind of departed from his prepare remarks and made that gesture, I think that was something that we might be talking about months from now when we're trying to look back at this issue. In the Republican response to the state of the Union, freshman Alabama Senator Katie Britt criticized Biden's age and called his performance that of a permanent politician who'd been in office for longer than she had been alive. Britt went on to call Biden's action on illegal immigration insufficient and said Republicans strongly support access to in vitro fertilization. The latest evidence of GOP lawmakers scrambling to reassure voters that the procedure in contrast to abortion has the full support of the party. In a key state of the Union policy announcement, President Biden has said the US military plans to install a temporary peer off the coast of the Gaza Strip for cargo ships to unload essential aid. The president has been under pressure to do more to alleviate civilian suffering in Gaza, where the Israeli military is fighting the Hamas militant group. But his journal correspondent, Sooner-Raspussen, told us it's unclear just how much of an impact the US plans will have. The idea is to transport aid from Cyprus on ships to Gaza, where they will then erect this temporary peer floating in the water. The aid will be screened by Israel in Cyprus and the Israeli ship is ultimately meant to accompany the aid as it travels towards Gaza to ensure that no weapons or other materials that could benefit Hamas are delivered with the aid. Once the aid arrives at the peer, it will have to be transported by land to the people in need. And we don't know how those aid deliveries will be secured. There's been the wide-scale collapse of law and order. President Biden has said that he is not going to put American troops on the ground and US officials say that they are in conversations with the UN about how to secure these aid deliveries. But it is unclear how that will actually happen. According to US officials, one shipment will provide roughly 200 truckloads of aid, a far cry from the 500 truckloads of aid that Gaza received on a daily basis prior to the war. A house panel has approved plans to force TikTok's Chinese owner to sell the video sharing app or face an outright ban across the US. TikTok had urged its users to call Congress in an attempt to drop the bill with house staffers across the Capitol during hours of non-stop phone calls. But those efforts backfired with the house now expected to hold a floor vote on the bill. The House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party has called TikTok a grave threat to US national security, while a company spokesperson has said the legislation would deny the 170 million American users of the app their constitutional right to free expression. Boeing is overhauling employee bonuses in order to emphasize quality and safety over meeting financial targets. According to a company memo, safety and quality metrics will now account for 60% of annual bonuses in Boeing's commercial unit. It comes in response to production problems identified as a cause of the doorplug blowout on an Alaska air flight in January. At the same time, Boeing will today begin contract negotiations with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers Union for the first time in 16 years. The Union is seeking a 40% wage increase, the return of a defined benefit pension and a commitment from Boeing that the next new jet will be produced by its own. And today's US Jobs Report is set to cap a blockbuster week for economic data. Investors have already been dissecting Fed Chair Jerome Powell's congressional testimony, and today's non-farm payrolls data will provide further clues on where the US economy is headed and what that means for the Fed's rate plans. Eric Wallerstein covers global macro economics for the journal and he says that traders have become a lot more focused on data points like the Jobs Report in recent months. So non-farm payrolls is definitely one of the biggest economic indicators specifically in this cycle where pretty much all of Wall Street's gearing up for the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates. At some point this year, if you see a weaker non-farm payrolls print which shows some loosening or some cooling of the labor market, traders would definitely say, interest rates are coming down, you know, I'm going to buy bonds expecting yields to fall during this cycle where the Fed's been tightening policy. We've seen traders up to six hours ahead of an economic data print starting to trade treasury futures. So it's definitely a shift from years prior where maybe there'd be an half hour or an hour before the data traders would start trading. So it really just speaks to how focused investors are on the Fed that said we're very data dependent. Our future policy decisions are going to depend on all the incoming data. Coming up as governments around the world pull back on spending, we'll look at how those cuts disproportionately affect women. That story and more after the break. Hey, what's news fans? Listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? That's right, all your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music Add Free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown Add Free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most Add Free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your prime membership. To start listening download the Amazon Music app for free or visit Amazon dot com slash what's news? That's Amazon dot com slash what's news? It's just that easy. The United Nations is marking this year's International Women's Day today by calling on countries to invest in women. I mean, what they say is a $360 billion annual spending deficit on gender equality measures. And as governments tighten their belts, they warn that austerity policies could disproportionately hurt women and potentially put targets to achieve gender equality by the end of the decade out of reach. To address that, the UN is calling for the implementation of gender responsive financing and here to explain what that is and why it may be necessary. I'm joined by Bill Gates, Airtown, an associate professor of economics and international affairs at Northeastern University. Bill Gates, the UN is citing a recent estimate that 75% of countries around the world are likely to curb public spending by the year 2025 with the reasons for that being conflict as well as rising costs for everything from food to fuel. What effect is that trend likely to have on women? One thing to consider is that when we think about macroeconomic policies, we often think of it as gender neutral, but these economic policy choices affect women and men differently. Women are disproportionately represented in the public sector in many countries and when there's a budget cut that affects these sectors, women are more likely to suffer from job losses and also reduce wages. But also, women are also predominantly consumers of these services like programs for single mothers, healthcare and social services, reproductive health services, as well as child benefits. So when budget cuts specifically affect these services, they tend to also increase the burden on women as they can have to increase their unpaid care labor to fill in the gaps that basically public sector has left. And yet we are seeing Bill Gates more and more evidence of what some people have called a she economy taking root driven for, by instance, greater workforce participation among women, jump in female entrepreneurship as well. Are we getting closer to a point where women are more insulated against shocks of the sort we've been talking about here? So when we look at women's labor force participation, for example, in the US, it has been increasing since the pandemic. So in January 2024 data, it stands at 57.5%, but when we compare that before the pandemic, for example, February 2020, it was 58%. And so in that sense, there is not a very big increase in women's labor force participation. It just recovered to the levels before the pandemic. But when we look at sort of the self-employment specifically, so it makes up about 10% of employment in the US. And that has been increasing. And what they found was that self-employment really increased among women, and especially non-white women that were coming from relatively less educated people. And they also found that women with young children specifically took up this self-employment precisely because it was hard to take care of children during the pandemic and try to work at the same time. But when we look at sort of what happens since the pandemic also that a lot of policies expired. For example, Biden administration announced a new rule to reduce child care costs that's going to basically limit family payments to 7% of their income. They're also increasing subsidies to the providers. But what is estimated is it's going to only affect costs for about 100,000 children. So we're talking about really the very low income Americans are going to benefit from this and it's not going to be a very generalized benefit. Okay, however, some policymakers are trying to keep the focus on gender equality. The UN for instance is calling for gender responsive financing, though that does sound like spending money in a time of austerity. The idea of gender responsive budgeting has been around for a really long time. But what it essentially means is that we want to ensure that both men and women benefit equally from different public sector programs. And if a program needs to be cut, that it that also need to be evaluated whether who is going to suffer from that reduction in spending. There are different options that governments can have. First of all, the debts that they accumulated during the pandemic can be rescheduled. But also, you know, they can think about raising more revenue and progressive taxation is one of the ways in which they can actually raise more funding in order to reduce the budget deficits. And in addition, there is a lot of concerns about women's reproductive rights. And that's not even a budget issue. That's a much really a political issue currently in the United States after the Supreme Court decision to overturned Roy V. Wade, where we see several states outright banned abortion. Women who are turned down when they want to denobortion, they can see the experience significant financial hardship going forward. Their credit scores deteriorated over time. There is other related research that show that also this has implications for education and labor market outcomes. And there's even suggestion that such increasing financial stress can lead to more intra-hustled conflict and violence towards women. So we need to consider basically a very broad set of policies when it comes to thinking about gender equality and what types of policies help improve gender pay gaps in the US. Bilga Erton is an associate professor of economics and international affairs at Northeastern University. Bilga, thank you so much for being with us on What's News. Thanks for having me. And that is What's News for Friday Morning. Today's episode was produced by Kate Bollivan and Charlie Duffield with additional support from Hattie Moir. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kylhoff and I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. Otherwise, have a great weekend and happy International Women's Day. Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.