 Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads. It's Super Tuesday and voters in 15 states are casting their ballots. And how smaller banks ran into problems when they tried to grow bigger. How did they let these risks build up? Why wasn't somebody saying, oh, you've got too much of this interest rate risk? Well, some of that was due to just how much the bank had grown. Plus, Bitcoin prices soared to a new record. It's Tuesday, March 5th. I'm Ann Marie for Tolly for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. It's primary season's biggest day, Super Tuesday, and voters in 15 states, including California, Texas, North Carolina and Virginia are casting their ballots. Most of these states are expected to fall either solidly Democratic or Republican. Though when it comes to the general election, North Carolina is a question mark. We're also watching to see whether this will be the last stand for Nikki Haley, as she mounts a long shot bid to prevent Donald Trump from securing the GOP nomination for president. And President Biden is facing protest voting, as we saw on Michigan's primary last Tuesday from those angry over his supportive Israel's military campaign against Hamas. Let's jump in with our National Political Reporter, Eliza Collins. Welcome back Eliza. Hi, good to be here. Alright, so as we talked about last time you were here, Haley has vowed to stay in the race through Super Tuesday. So what does today mean for her presidential bid? Today really, it could be the end, although we don't know, to your point, Haley has said repeatedly she's only thought through Super Tuesday. She has no ads booked after today. She does have money if she chooses to keep going. But what she has said so far is that the nomination should not be decided off of a handful of states. Until now, really just a handful of states have voted. After tonight, we will be more than halfway there. And Haley is not able to significantly turn things around. Her argument gets even harder. So then how close could Trump get to securing the nomination after tonight? Trump will not have enough delegates after tonight, even if he wins every state, but he will be very close. He could secure them all as soon as March 12th, if he wins by wide enough margins tonight and then on March 12th. Otherwise, by March 19th, I mean, we're looking really within days to a couple of weeks away from Trump becoming the Republican nominee. More than a dozen states are holding primaries today and you've flagged some to keep an especially close eye on. What are you watching? Well, I like California because it's a traditionally blue state, but it will matter tonight on the GOP side because if Trump clears a majority of the vote in California, he will get all 169 delegates. And that is a huge boost in his quest for the nomination. Haley really needs to keep him below that 50% line if she wants to get delegates. Also in California, separate from the presidential race is a closely watched Senate primary. We expect it to elect a Democrat for the open Senate seat come November. But what we are watching for is who ends up in that general election from tonight. And it's been three major names. Congressman Adam Schiff and Congresswoman Katie Porter along with Congresswoman Barbara Lee have been the three Democrats vying for the seat. Schiff and Porter have proven to be some of the strongest fundraisers in the House and really in politics in general. But there is a Republican Steve Garvey, a former baseball player, is also running. He looks at this moment like he might take the second slot. Adam Schiff looks like he's going to take the first. So the question is, is it going to be basically Adam Schiff's Senate seat that we would know today? Or will it be a matchup between Schiff and Porter that will be expensive and ugly going into November? You mentioned North Carolina. North Carolina is the only battleground state voting on Tuesday. So we're really interested to see who shows up for which candidate we like to watch primaries as sort of an indicator for November to watch how key voting groups will vote. Let's talk about President Biden in Michigan. Some voters cast their ballots is uncommitted in protest of his foreign policy, especially concerning the Israel-Hamos war. Is that protest movement growing and what's at stake for him tonight? So similar to what we were saying about Trump, we expect President Biden to be the Democratic nominee in November. Like Trump, he could secure the nomination as early as this month. We expect him to win all of the states tonight, barring any major surprises. But what we are watching for is signs of weakness. And one huge sign of weakness we've seen with his base is this frustration from progressives and young voters over US support for Israel. And it's war against Hamas, particularly for the humanitarian crisis going on in Gaza. So we are watching several other states where there have been efforts, including Minnesota, to show protest votes. And I don't know how big those margins will be or even if they will be organized in the way they were for Michigan. But that's certainly something I imagine the Biden campaign is going to be watching tonight. That's Wall Street Journal, National Political Reporter, Eliza Collins. You can follow along as results start coming in from around 6 p.m. Eastern time with our live coverage at WSJ.com. Sticking with political news, Arizona Senator Kirsten Sinema has announced she won't run for re-election and will retire after this term. Sinema, an independent who left the Democratic Party in 2022, played a pivotal role in bipartisan deals, but angered progressives. She would have faced an uphill re-election battle had she decided to run. The race to replace her could now decide control of the Senate, where Democrats and Independents aligned with the party currently have a thin 51-49 majority. Bitcoin prices soared to a new record today in a rally that's defied the expectations of analysts and investors. The biggest cryptocurrency by market value briefly crossed $69,000, surpassing its prior all-time high from late 2021. That's according to Dow Jones market data. Cryptocurrency's reporter, Kate Lennastrov. The Valley has, in part, been driven by the approval of exchange traded funds that are able to hold Bitcoin itself. That has led to an increased demand for Bitcoin. But we were looking at some data which suggests that a lot of the buying of Bitcoin, at least from small traders or large traders, seems to be happening on finance. It seems to indicate that a lot of the interest is coming from outside the US, because finances in XUS exchange. It seems like there's a lot of interest just globally in Bitcoin pushing up the price. Coming up, larger banks have more insulation from the pressures their smaller peers face. But there are risks in going from a mid-size lender to a bigger one. We'll have more after the break. Hey, what's news fans? Listen up. Did you know you can listen to episodes of this very show Add Free on Amazon Music included with your Prime Membership? That's right, all your favorite what's news episodes can be heard on Amazon Music Add Free. But that's not all. You get access to other fan favorite shows like The Daily, Up First and Fox News rundown, Add Free as well. Amazon Music has all you need to stay up to date on all things newsworthy by offering the most Add Free top podcasts. So we know they definitely have something for you. And it's already included in your Prime Membership. To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free or visit amazon.com slash what's news. That's amazon.com slash what's news. It's just that easy. China plans to boost its military spending by 7.2% this year. That matches the pace of last year's expansion and builds on more than 20 years of continued defense upgrades. Chinese leader Xi Jinping is on an expensive campaign to modernize the country's armed forces. According to a draft report, total military expenditure this year will reach the equivalent of about $232 billion. The International Criminal Court based in the Hague has issued a rest warrants for two Russian commanders accused of targeting Ukraine's power grid. They're charged with directing missiles against Ukrainian power plants and distribution stations. Acts that would violate the humanitarian law prohibition on targeting civilian facilities. The Russian Embassy in Washington didn't immediately respond to request for comment. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky welcomed the ICC's action. And in Haiti, heavily armed gangs freed close to 5,000 prisoners and forced the closure of two airports late Monday. Meanwhile, the whereabouts of the Prime Minister are unknown. The survival of Haiti's government is in doubt, though it has imposed a curfew of 6 p.m. to 5 a.m. through Wednesday. Security in Haiti began deteriorating sharply over the weekend when a coalition of gangs targeted prisons and police stations. How big is too big when it comes to banks? Recent regional banking crises have revived debates over the size of lenders. That's because larger banks have been more insulated from some of the pressures roiling their regional peers. But expanding also comes with challenges and risks. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal, heard on the street writer, Tellus Demos. Welcome back, Tellus. Thanks for having me. So the past disability is not as simple as just growing bigger as we learned from near community bank or that's right. Growing a small or medium sized bank into a larger bank is we are seeing a very complicated thing. One of the challenges is simply fast growth at a bank can bring with it lots of changes in the nature of the bank's business, how the bank manages its various risks and other exposures and how the bank is managed. The US banking regulatory system is broken up in many cases by tears of banks. That is by design. Congress has over the years passed various laws that suggest that rules should be tailored to the size of banks with the presumption being that bigger banks are riskier and therefore should be the most heavily regulated that smaller banks maybe they are at more individual risk of failure. But they are not as systemically important and therefore it's not as necessary to regulate them to the same degree. So what happens as a bank grows bigger in some cases that means that the bank has to change its practices dramatically. It also means that different kinds of supervisors, different kinds of examiners that are looking at the bank start to take over. And what we've learned from the post-mortem reports done by regulators after the crisis last March was that sometimes those transitions can be very challenging, right? So you mentioned last March and the banking crisis back then it seems like it was something similar that happened with Silicon Valley Bank. Silicon Valley Bank grew enormously during the pandemic. It gathered a lot more deposits. It grew in asset size. That was a big part of the story of how it got to what eventually happened in March of 2023. They took in a lot more deposits. So Silicon Valley Bank was growing a lot during that time. It grew tremendously and it would jump up between regulatory tiers. And when the Fed looked at, they said, okay, what are the things that led up to the crisis last year? One thing they found was that, well, it looked like that was a difficult transition. Different groups of supervisors would take over for another one. How one level of supervisors looked at it versus another wasn't necessarily consistent. And so banks getting bigger has been a big part of some of the recent crises and other concerns that we've seen about banks. This reminds me a lot of the debates over too big to fail. But if the solution is not growing bigger, what is the solution? Should banks grow smaller? What's the answer? Well, some people might say that you should flatten out regulation. Maybe all banks, regardless of their size, should be regulated the same or very similarly. Maybe that would mean that banks aren't hopping between tiers. But again, the legislative preference and the preference of a lot of people in this country would be that we don't want small banks to be as regulated as big banks. We also like having lots of banks. There are lots of people who think that having tons of smaller banks is good for customers. It's good for communities, especially in parts of the country where that are more rural or that aren't necessarily served by a very large bank because that bank just doesn't see a lot of potential in a small town. And so it's not easy to say, okay, let's just have a bunch of very large banks. And some people would say that that pushes the burden to taxpayers to backstop all these too big to fail banks. But it does suggest that there just needs to be maybe more thought and attention paid to how banks get bigger. Banking is just a really tricky thing to do. And maybe the answer ultimately is that we're going to have bank failures from time to time. And we need to learn to just sort of accept that as part of the process. Maybe we need to think about expanding deposit insurance to a wider range of customers. Maybe the accounts of an account that goes over the $250,000 limit, but belongs to a small business. Maybe that should be protected by deposit insurance, even though it's a relatively large account or a business account. So there's a lot of different ways that you can imagine solving this. But I don't think we're anywhere close to a consensus about which of those paths makes the most sense. That's Wall Street Journal heard on the street writer, Tellestimos. And that's what's news for this Tuesday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre Bienemé and Anthony Vancey, with supervising producer Michael Kusmedi's. I'm Anne Marie for Toley for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Did you know you can listen to this show ad free on Amazon Music included with your prime membership? To start listening, download the Amazon Music app for free and catch up on the latest episodes without the ads.