Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer calls for an end to Benjamin Netanyahu's government in Israel. And, we'll look into the connection between big profits and high prices. In some sense, companies are essentially exploiting this cognitive flaw humans have that they just are not punishing them for their failure to pass on cost savings. Plus, former Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin wants to buy TikTok. It's Thursday, March 14th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer is calling for new elections in Israel saying Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu "has lost his way." Schumer is the highest ranking Jewish elected official in the US government. He delivered a speech on the Senate floor earlier today. I believe a new election is the only way to allow for a healthy and open decision making process about the future of Israel, at a time when so many Israelis have lost their confidence in the vision and direction of their government. Schumer's speech is the latest in a series of high level warnings and White House actions aimed at pressuring Israel to allow more aid into Gaza and rethink its war plans for Hamas, whose deadly attack on Israel sparked the war in October. The address marked an unusually direct criticism of the democratically elected leader of a close ally and sparked sharp pushback from Congressional Republicans and from Israel's ambassador to the US. Private equity. Those big names like Apollo, Blackstone, and KKR already dominate corporate finance, but now they're turning their eyes to US consumers. The firms are pushing into what's known as asset-based finance, think auto loans, credit cards, and real estate mortgages. It's a market worth potentially hundreds of billions of dollars. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal reporter Matt Wirz. Welcome, Matt. Hello. So why are private equity firms interested in going this route? Is it just the profit potential? Yeah. It's scale. That's really what this offers them. It's the opportunity to grow much bigger, much faster. And it's interesting the question you said private equity firms. These firms really aren't private equity firms predominantly anymore. The bulk of their assets under management are actually no longer private equity. That's still a big chunk, but they've sort of maxed out that market. So they moved from that to making loans to corporations and now they've kind of maxed out that market. And so, they need a new frontier, and they found it in this much bigger, much more varied pool of loans that historically, have been made by banks. The big picture is just that they are becoming massive. They're becoming much, much bigger and much more important to the financial system in our country and around the world. What does this mean for their profits? It's good for their shareholders and it's really good for the executives. Many of them are founders of these firms and they still own significant amounts of the shares. And so, when the assets under management of these companies grows by say 20% or 30%, the stock valuation goes up a multiple of that and they make a lot of money. And what does it mean for consumers? I think we don't know. We really don't. Because regulation of these institutions is not prepared for them doing this type of lending, and so we don't really know how it's going to play out in the short term. What it means is that consumers should do maybe a little bit more homework than they used to. They should ask of their credit card company. Okay, so you're the name on my credit card bill, but do you own my loan? Do you own my credit card balance? Or to somebody else? That would be a good place to start. That's Wall Street Journal reporter Matt Wirz. Coming up, big profits and high prices are often linked. We'll dive into the details of the connection between the two after the break. US retail sales rose a seasonally adjusted 0.6% in February, slightly less than expected. The monthly report on how consumers are spending or pulling back is viewed as a harbinger for the state of the US economy. The results show consumer spending is still robust, but not as strong as economists. We're hoping many believe Americans are now close to spending down their savings and feeling stretched by inflation, which has impacted the prices of everyday essentials like groceries. We'd actually like to hear from you about that. What questions do you have about food price inflation and what it means for your family budget? Send us a note or even better record a voice memo on your phone and send it to Wnpod@wsj.com. That's W-N-P-O-D at wsj.com. You can also leave us a voicemail at 212-416-4328. Just be sure to include your name and location. We might use it on the show. And when we talk about high prices, we often draw connections with big profits. President Biden even referenced them during his State of the Union address last week where he used the term shrinkflation and price gouging. So is it all politics or is there any truth to it? Our chief economics commentator Greg Ip, tackles this in his latest capital account column and he joins me now to explain. Welcome back, Greg. Thanks for having me. So let's start with the ways big profits and higher prices are connected. We did see some of this during the height of the pandemic. When companies saw more profits, they raise prices. Exactly. And when you actually look at what was going on, it's really not that surprising. You had basically this gigantic wall of demand as people emerged from lockdowns and wanted to spend. They had all these stimulus checks. We had low interest rates and company's ability to produce enough to meet that demand was very constrained because there were supply chain bottlenecks everywhere. If you essentially have unlimited demand and very limited supply, that's a recipe to raise prices. That goes straight to margins. No big mystery there. The question mark arises when, in the last year, almost all the evidence tells us that supply chain problems are pretty much fixed. And yet profit margins are still very high. They're not coming down. And, just as a matter of arithmetic, because profit margins haven't come down more, that means prices also haven't come down as much. And so this at least tells us there is something there when people complain that high profits might be part of the story about why inflation hasn't come down more. So given that, what are some of the caveats we're not considering? Well, if you listen to President Biden, he says, "Oh, it's all about junk fees." You buy this concert ticket and you end up paying $10 more than you thought, or he'll say, "It's shrinkflation. That Snickers bar is smaller than it used to be." But if you actually study these phenomena, yes, they exist, but it's very hard to show that they're getting worse. So that's not really a story. What about the notion that market power is becoming more concentrated in the hands of a few companies? The problem with that was we don't really have much evidence that the market is more concentrated now than it was three or four years ago. The final possibility though is sort of like psychology, which is that in the oil market, they used to talk about rockets and feathers. When oil prices went up, gasoline followed like a rocket. When oil prices went down, gasoline kind of only slowly flowed down like a feather. Well, it turns out that rockets and feathers pretty much represents the way prices behave across the whole economy. It looks like what happened is that costs shot up in the early part of the pandemic. Companies were very quick to pass that through to prices. Costs have since come down a bit or they've stopped going up. Companies have not passed that benefit onto their customers. Company marketing departments have figured out that people will swallow a price increase and they won't necessarily insist on that price going down again later on. So maybe that's part of the story is that in some sense, companies are essentially exploiting this cognitive flaw humans have, that they just are not punishing them for their failure to pass on cost savings. That's Wall Street Journal Chief Economics commentator, Greg Ip. Former Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is interested in buying TikTok. He said he's putting together a group to try to purchase the short video app after the house voted yesterday to ban it in the US or force a sale. Mnuchin has long crusaded against Chinese ownership of the app. He hasn't said how much he might pay for TikTok, which could be valued at more than a hundred billion dollars. A deal is far from guaranteed. Senate lawmakers have signaled a more cautious approach to a ban or forced sale, which would have little precedent. TikTok and its owner ByteDance didn't respond to request for comment today. SpaceX pulled off an extended flight through space during its third test mission today. The spacecraft known as Starship successfully separated from its booster and proceeded to fly for around an hour before it was lost while reentering earth's atmosphere. The mission advanced much farther than the company's previous two Starship test flights, marking major progress for a vehicle that could one day transport astronauts to the moon and beyond. And finally, gene editing is complicated and typically involves extracting a patient's cells, tweaking the DNA they contain, and reintroducing them into the body. Now, there's a new frontier. Dozens of people have participated in studies of in vivo editing, which involves editing cells inside the body. One patient in his seventies suffers from a genetic mutation that caused clumps of malformed proteins to build up in his heart, hindering its ability to pump blood. So he underwent a treatment that turned off the gene producing those proteins and his symptoms improved. But this medical innovation isn't without controversy. Wall Street Journal, senior writer, Betsy McKay, looked at the advantages and possible risks.Betsy McKay: The benefits of a medicine like this compared with say, regular drugs are that first of all, it's a one-time treatment. One and done as they call it. And the in vivo treatment is something that could be done more easily in developing countries. Ultimately, it could reach more people and it could be cheaper. It's also, probably, the approach that's going to be needed for most diseases. The benefit for reaching a lot of people is you're doing this inside the body, but that's also the risk. If you're editing cells in a lab and something goes wrong, you have some unintended consequence, you can see it. This is being done in your body. And the concern is that you might accidentally do what's called off target gene editing. You hit some other gene and you might not know it right away. As one professor of cell biology and physiology told Betsy, when it comes to gene editing, we don't know what we don't know. And that's what's news for this Thursday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Pierre Bienaimé with supervising producer Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning.