A Florida judge rejects Donald Trump's bid to dismiss his Mar-a-Lago documents case. Plus China condemns US efforts to force a sale of TikTok, leaving few options for owner ByteDance. If you're ByteDance, you're between a rock and a hard place here. You have two governments that aren't going to budge, and if you do anything that shows that you're willing to comply with one side, then the other side immediately distrusts you. And Palestinians in Gaza run out of money amid soaring inflation and a breakdown of the banking sector. It's Friday, March 15th. I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal and here is the AM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories moving your world today. A federal judge in Florida has rejected an effort by Donald Trump to toss out the classified documents case against him, which involves his handling of classified materials at his Mar-a-Lago residence. US District Court Judge Aileen Cannon acknowledged Trump's motion to dismiss the case presented some arguments warranting serious consideration, but said those questions could be raised later in the trial. In one effort to dismiss the case, Trump's lawyers argued that a portion of the Espionage Act under which Trump is charged is unconstitutional. But Cannon said that striking down the statute would be, "Quite an extraordinary step." Trump has pleaded not guilty in the case, which had initially been set to go to trial on May 20th, but Trump's lawyers have sought a delay and federal prosecutors are now pushing for a July start. Voting has begun in Russia in a presidential election that Vladimir Putin is all but guaranteed to win, with his potential challengers barred from the ballot and his critics either jailed or having fled the country. Given that, our Moscow Bureau Chief Ann Simmons explained the logic of even holding an election. It really is a way for Putin to signal to the rest of the world that he's in charge, that the Russian people endorse him as the leader of Russia. A high turnout and a high vote for Putin, it's basically also an endorsement of his policies and essentially his war in Ukraine. So there was really a full court press by the Kremlin in terms of getting out the vote. They were insistent that the heads of corporations, of industries, that they basically mobilized state workers to go out to the polls. Voting ends on Sunday and a Putin victory would hand him another six year term in office and with it the chance to become Russia's longest reigning leader since Joseph Stalin. Turning to the Middle East, Hamas has called for Palestinians to confront Israel today at the Al Asqua Mosque in East Jerusalem, where large numbers of worshipers are set together. The Islamic Holy Month of Ramadan has been an occasion for violent confrontations at the compound between Palestinians, Israeli authorities and Jewish worshipers in recent years. However, Hamas' political leader did call for a march at Al Asqua to coincide with the start of Ramadan on Sunday that failed to materialize. And the mosque has been largely calm this week with Palestinian leaders saying Israelis have been allowing entry by Palestinians after restricting access since the beginning of the Gaza War. Well already faced with a hunger crisis, displacement and the widespread destruction of homes and businesses, a shortage of cash is now compounding the devastation in Gaza. And for those fortunate enough to have savings or be receiving salaries in Gaza, the Journal's Omar Abdel-Baqui reports that wildly fluctuating prices are adding to the challenges of daily life. Omar, I think a lot of focus, understandably, has been dedicated to how much food aid and other aid is reaching Gaza. And that is a part of the territory's wartime economy. But Gaza has wage earners, it has rent payers, people who rely on buying all manner of products and who are very affected by forces like inflation. What is the state of Gaza's wartime economy now?Omar Abdel-Baqui: So prices in Gaza's desperate wartime economy can be looked at through a simple supply and demand lens. Supply is very low in the enclave for food and other essentials and demand is very high as hunger and starvation is spreading. And so prices have shot up for things that are acquired on the marketplace. Food prices have more than doubled compared to pre-war levels, according to the Palestinian Bureau of Central Statistics. And some staples like flour and salt are 10 times higher than they were pre-war, that's according to the World Food Program. And there are certain other things aside from food that have increased dramatically like rent. So there are over a million Palestinians who are displaced, sheltering in the south, in the border city of Rafah, because of fighting in the north and after the Israeli military urged people to move south. So because of that, rent there has skyrocketed. We spoke with one man, Mustafa Ashkar is his name, before the war, the apartment that he's staying at in Rafah was 1,500 Shekels and now it's 4,000 Shekels. And he's living off savings and he's burning through his savings because of that high rent. And so when he wants to obtain other essentials like diapers, he barters things that he doesn't need as much, bartering cans of beans to get diapers for his 1-year-old. So Omar, prices very clearly there are spiking for those who have the means to pay for essentials. Though you report that many people can't even access cash or digital payment systems.Omar Abdel-Baqui: Yeah. I mean, one, it's important to note that most people are reliant on aid and handouts and are living off aid and handouts from humanitarian organizations or their relatives or their friends. But those lucky enough to have money to their name are having difficulty accessing that cash. So about 80% of people in Gaza are now unemployed. Those that are employed work in either the humanitarian sector or the medical sector. And so they're getting a salary, they just can't get the money because the banking system is essentially paralyzed. Many ATMs and many bank branches have been destroyed along with the money in them. And those that do exist are concentrated heavily in the south, in and around Rafah. So in many cases, those ATMs, which there are only a handful left, they have hours long lines, they run out of cash all the time. And to make matters more complicated, Gaza hasn't had reliable electricity or really any electricity since the beginning of the war. And in addition, there are frequent telecommunication blackouts, so people are not able to rely on electronic transactions either. In terms of what's being done to address these many challenges, in recent days, we have seen airdrops into Gaza of food and other supplies. The US is also setting up a maritime corridor with some partner countries that could bring in additional supplies. Is any of that having an effect at the very least in stabilizing the situation in Gaza?Omar Abdel-Baqui: So not really. The amount of aid coming in from the air is a lot lower than the amount of aid that was coming in via truck. It might make a dent in those already rapidly fluctuating prices, but it's unlikely that those airdrops will stabilize prices. And the maritime corridor is going to take quite a bit of time to get off the ground. The US sent ships from the coast of Virginia and it'll take around 45 days to make it to Gaza. So it'll take quite some time for that aid to make it. Given that, Omar, it sounds like Palestinians in Gaza are going to be waiting for a long time for this situation to improve. What does the severity of this economic situation mean for them and for the territory longer term?Omar Abdel-Baqui: Yeah, the consequences are dire, I would say. The economic situation is intertwined with a larger humanitarian situation. 27 people have died from starvation or dehydration in recent weeks. That's according to health officials on the ground. And if more supplies don't enter the enclave, we'll still see these sky-high prices, unaffordable prices to many people. And we'll see starvation and hunger spread. In the long term, it'll take a long time to rebuild Gaza's banking system, economy, governance structure. It will be a Herculean task. I've been speaking to Wall Street Journal reporter Omar Abdel-Baqui. Omar, thank you so much for bringing us this story.Omar Abdel-Baqui: Thank you for having me, Luke. I really appreciate it. Coming up, China signals that it won't allow a forced sale of TikTok in the US. And a cockpit mishap is the likely cause of a terrifying plunge on a Boeing flight to New Zealand. We've got those stories and more after the break. The Chinese government is signaling that it won't allow a forced sale of TikTok, blasting the US for its moves, targeting the video sharing app. Jonathan Cheng is the Wall Street Journal's Bureau Chief in Beijing. John, we heard some pretty fiery language yesterday from China on this. Tell us what jumped out to you. They're not happy with the possibility that TikTok may be locked out of the world's biggest economy, it's largest market. You heard the Foreign Ministry Spokesman on Thursday say it's an overstretching of national security to keep down a good company from a good country that the US doesn't like. They used this phrase, "It is sheer robber's logic to try every means to snatch from others all the good things that they have." So that's pretty strong language, pretty direct. Sounds a little strange in English, but I think we all get the gist of that. Well, at least ByteDance executives seem to, John, given that we're reporting that they've interpreted that as meaning that Beijing would rather the app be banned in the US than sold? Yeah. I mean, look, ByteDance, they were a company that was founded in China, and China still ultimately has control over this company. So if indeed Beijing is going to frown upon any forced sale in the US, then ultimately I think that's probably the way that ByteDance has got to go. So if you're ByteDance, you're between a rock and a hard place here. You have two governments that aren't going to budge, that are effectively rivals here. If you do anything that shows that you're willing to comply with one side, then the other side immediately distrust you or isn't going to be happy. Meanwhile, we are seeing fresh signs of headwinds for China's beleaguered property sector as new home sales plummet. Sellers of secondhand homes are feeling the brunt of the downturn, with prices in February falling 6.3%. The worst decline on record. The years long property slowdown has dealt huge damage to the economy, reducing construction business, hitting consumer confidence and exacerbating the debt burden facing local governments, which typically rely on land sales as their major source of revenue. Well, at long last, companies in Japan are finally announcing significant wage increases. As traditional springtime negotiations show Japan is at the end of decades of economic stagnation. Peter Landers is our Tokyo Bureau Chief. We just heard from the largest Union Confederation in Japan that on average major Japanese companies are planning to raise pay by 5.28%. That's the largest raise since 1991, and it's much higher than last year's raise, which averaged out at about 3.6%. So it's a big pay increase. And we've heard a similar story from individual companies such as Nippon Steel, which is raising wages by 14%. Suntory Holdings, the liquor maker, by about 7%. Peter says that recent stock market records have been a boon for companies and reflect the strength of the Japanese economy now, but that it's taken longer for wages to catch up. What we have in Japan now is an economy that's being driven largely by exporters that are benefiting from the weak yen. But most of the Japanese economy is driven by its own consumers, people who live here in Japan, and they have been much more reluctant to spend because their wages in real terms are actually going down. So what we heard from the head of the Union Confederation today is that she thinks that these higher wages will actually help the economy overall by stimulating consumer spending. We are exclusively reporting that a cockpit mishap was the likely cause of a Boeing 787 Dreamliner flight from Sydney to Auckland suddenly plummeting this week. A flight attendant hit a switch on the pilot's seat while serving a meal, which meant that a motorized feature pushed the pilot into the controls and pushed down the plane's nose. The switch has a cover and isn't supposed to be used when a pilot is in the seat. Some 50 passengers needed medical attention following the incident, with airline Latam saying the jet suffered a technical event during the flight, which caused strong movement. The company said it's working with authorities on the investigation, but has declined to come further. And in another reminder to take what you read online with a grain of salt, a bunch of well-known investors are struggling to get Facebook and other social media platforms to take down posts by impersonators. The fake investing advice from the likes of hedge fund manager Steve Cohen, activist investor, Bill Ackman and ARK Invest's Cathie Wood, aim to scam individuals out of money. And Journal reporter Ben Dummett says that Ackman's Pershing Square has been trying to get those posts taken down but to no avail. What they can do is try to clamp down on these fake ads popping up in order to discourage the scammers from posting these ads in the first place. But regulators have come out and warned investors about this. The hedge funds themselves have told Facebook about this. Facebook claims that it itself is trying to take down these fake ads, and yet they keep reappearing. The only thing you can do is try to get in touch with the hedge funds themselves to see if this is a true ad. Contact Facebook to see if this ad is real or not. Maybe talk to a financial professional to get their advice on the validity of these ads. And that is What's News for Friday morning. Today's show was produced by Kate Bullivant and Charlie Duffield. Our supervising producer is Sandra Kilhof. And I'm Luke Vargas for the Wall Street Journal. We will be back tonight with a new show. Otherwise, have a great weekend and thanks as always for listening.