A nationwide settlement could change how Americans buy and sell homes. And can Biden and Trump appeal to America's most disillusioned voters, Gen Z? Democrats, in particular, and Republicans need to engage these voters. They need to make sure they turn out because this election is going to be very tight. Plus, Georgia prosecutor Fani Willis can stay on the election interference case against former President Donald Trump now that her deputy has resigned. It's Friday, March 15th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that moved the world today. If you're looking to buy or sell a home, this story is for you. A groundbreaking settlement announced today could drive down realtor commission rates and force thousands of real estate agents out of the industry. The National Association of Realtors has settled claims that the industry conspired to keep agent commissions high. In the US, that commission is typically 5 to 6% of the purchase price, among the highest in the world. If approved by a federal court, the $418 million agreement changes a couple of things. Sellers who typically pay a buyer's agent now don't have to include in their home listing how much they'll pay, and buyers will now sign agreements with real estate agents on how much to pay them. These would be the biggest changes to how Americans buy and sell homes in decades, and it could mean big savings for both buyers and sellers. Here now with more is Wall Street Journal national legal affairs reporter, Laura Kusisto. Laura, this agreement gives home buyers more power. They can decide whether to use real estate agents and it's easier to negotiate how much to pay them. What does it mean for sellers? From the seller's perspective, it gives them a little bit of flexibility. They can decide if they want to offer compensation to a buyer's agent, "You aren't going to have to pay your agent if you buy this house. I'm going to pay them for you." But I think it gives them more flexibility than we've seen in the past with also saying, "I want to save on fees, and so I'm not going to offer that." Laura, the National Association of Realtors is one of the country's most powerful trade groups. What will the settlement mean for the industry? I absolutely think that it is a threat to the industry. It makes it more likely that buyers might opt not to use agents at all, to say, "I'm going to try to save the money." So, agents are going to have to rethink how they do business a little bit, how they talk to buyers, how they talk to sellers about their compensation. What did the organization say about how the system was working? Their defense of the old system is that it really helped first-time buyers, buyers with more moderate incomes. The fact that the seller was offering to provide the compensation for your agent, it put people on equal footing whether they had just sold a million dollar home or never bought a home in their lives. It could be a challenge for first-time buyers who are now going to have to really commit to paying their agent if the seller doesn't want to. Laura, as our listeners know, we've been covering the ups and downs of the housing market for quite a long time, from higher mortgage rates to record sale prices. Could this settlement change the dynamics of that market? The consumer advocates, the people who are kind of a proponent of these changes, they will tell you this solves all the problems in the world. Right now, one of the big problems we have with the housing market is a shortage of inventory. So, they're going to argue this makes it easier for someone to sell a home, right? They don't have to pay necessarily the same astronomical commissions that they were paying before. So, we might see more inventory come on the market, people be more willing to sell. They've made the argument that home prices will come down and that'll be good for buyers because sellers will have fewer costs in selling a home. That's the sort of optimistic scenario for how this could potentially be good for the housing market. Wall Street Journal national legal affairs reporter, Laura Kusisto. Fani Willis, the Georgia prosecutor who brought a sweeping indictment against former President Donald Trump on charges related to election interference, can remain on the case. A judge ruled this morning that Willis could stay on if her chief legal advisor, Nathan Wade, with whom she had a romantic relationship, resigned. By this afternoon, he had stepped aside. And according to a document reviewed by the Wall Street Journal, Willis accepted his letter of resignation. The judge had said their relationship, which has since ended, created an appearance of impropriety. His order is a partial win for defense lawyers who sought to have Willis and the case itself dismissed. Florida is the next state to hold its presidential primary on Tuesday, March 19th. With a general election rematch between President Biden and former President Donald Trump set, Florida's contest is expected to be a bit sleepy, but the Sunshine State's still a hotbed for the culture wars. Many of the policies pushed by Governor, and one-time presidential hopeful, Ron DeSantis are at the center of those debates, from restricting instruction about sexual orientation in schools to cracking down on drag performances. In our latest episode of Chasing the Base, out Sunday, host Jimmy Vielkind explores how those dynamics are playing out in the Republican presidential contest, and he is back now with a preview of the latest episode. Welcome back, Jimmy. Happy to be with you. All right, so Jimmy, you went to Florida and talked with voters. How are these culture wars playing out among them? Well, generally, when we spoke to Republican voters, they told us that they were supportive of many of the laws that Florida Governor Ron DeSantis has pushed, but that these issues just aren't top of mind. One of the places I went was the Florida Strawberry Festival in Plant City. Think of a state fair, only everything is strawberry flavored. Talking to people, they almost always said that their top issues were immigration in the southern border and the economy. When I would ask about culture wars, we had one person who even said, "Oh, they're issues, but they're just not big issues." Jimmy, a lot of those policies were pushed by Florida Governor Ron DeSantis who dropped out of the race for the GOP nomination for president back in January. How are Florida voters viewing DeSantis versus former President Donald Trump? Well, that was something I asked, basically, everyone we spoke to. I heard from a lot of people that they really liked Ron DeSantis. They were happy with his record as governor, but they just would've picked Donald Trump over DeSantis in a primary if it were ever to have come to a real matchup. Basically, they really like Trump, and they saw no reason for DeSantis to make a challenge at this time/ they felt that if Trump is elected or if Trump exits the scene, they think DeSantis sits on a very solid foundation for a potential run for the presidency in 2028. Jimmy, how does all of this translate what's going on in Florida to the national level? Well, what's interesting about going to Florida at this moment is you can see some signs that the culture war is starting to ebb. The Florida state legislature just concluded its annual session and many culture war priorities just didn't advance. The other thing that I found is that there are activists who are very engaged in these issues and who are very energized by these issues. It's unclear whether that's going to be a very mainstream focus that is going to insert itself into the national debate or whether it's going to stay more on the edges nationally and be more mainstream in certain states, including Florida, as we'd seen over the last several years. Wall Street Journal political reporter, Jimmy Vielkind. Thank you so much, Jimmy. Thanks, Annmarie. And you can hear the latest episode of Chasing the Base right here in the What's News feed on Sunday. Coming up, from Republican voters to a disillusioned Gen Z. We'll talk about why these young voters are more skeptical and pessimistic than previous generations after the break. We are in the heat of the presidential election season. As my colleague, Aaron Zitner, told us on the show last week, there's a lot of antipathy among voters for either candidate in the rematch set between President Biden and former President Donald Trump. But for a certain generation, the disillusionment is even stronger. Gen Z adults, who were born in 1997 and after, are more skeptical of government and pessimistic about the future than any other generation. That's according to long-running surveys and interviews with dozens of young people across the country. So, how did they get that way? Joining me now with more is our national political reporter, Eliza Collins. Welcome back. Eliza. Good to be here. Eliza, I can remember as a young voter, and now I'm an elder millennial, there was really a mix of people whether they wanted to get politically involved or not, but I didn't go through a global pandemic when I was a young person, and that understandably has had a big impact here. Yeah, absolutely. Young voters generally don't vote at the same rates as older voters. That is true across the board. Like you mentioned, there's usually a mix of people that are involved and also very disengaged. But this group, Gen Z, has really had a tumultuous coming of age. The pandemic for many of them was in high school or college. They were sent home. They couldn't be with their friends. They entered a job market with a lot of uncertainty. A lot of people we talked to were getting unemployment for a year. These voters have come of age in the Trump era. The divisiveness has continued in the Biden era. There's climate change warnings, there are school shootings, the right to an abortion was overturned when Roe v. Wade was overturned. So, there's all of these big, earth-shattering events that have come up as they've grown up, and they just don't feel good about the current state of the world and the future that politicians can help them. With that list you just rattled off, it's understandable. But at the same time, there are some positives, too. The job market's strong. The Biden administration has canceled billions of dollars in student loans. So, what are they looking at that sort of tells them they're not in a good spot? This is sort of this voter disconnect that we are seeing across the board. The economy is doing very well, and yet voters of all ages are not feeling it. But with young voters in particular, you mentioned several things that apply to them directly. But they say that there are a lot of things that are still holding them back. Their credit card and car loan delinquencies are increasing, their savings have gone down in that time, rent has gotten really expensive, inflation has gone down, but the price of food is still up. So, these voters are feeling the economic tensions, even if by most measures, the economy is doing very well. I'm also a millennial, and we entered the job market at a worse time than Gen Z, but surveys show millennials generally felt more optimistic about the state of the world because there had been relative calm until that point. So, the outlook is more positive than Gen Z who have come up just in such an angry, partisan, tumultuous time. How big of a problem is this disillusionment for Trump and Biden, and how are they seeking to appeal to this group of voters? It is a problem for Trump and Biden and all politicians. I would say it is a bigger problem for Democrats because young voters do tend to be more liberal than older voters. That has always been the case. That continues to be the case. But our polling showed that Biden led Trump by just a few percentage points with young voters, which is a problem given how liberal this group is on a lot of issues. They're just disengaged. So, both campaigns say they're targeting these voters using untraditional media sources. The Biden campaign just got on TikTok, which is really interesting because Biden has also said that he'd be willing to sign legislation that would ban or force new ownership of TikTok. So, they're trying to reach these voters. At the same time, they may be trying to limit their media sources. I've been speaking with Wall Street Journal national political reporter, Eliza Collins. Thank you as always, Eliza. Thank you. Boeing is advising airlines to check the cockpit seats on 787 Dreamliner jets. The planemaker's memo comes after a terrifying incident earlier this week where a seat mishap likely pushed a pilot into the plane's controls, causing a sudden plunge. We exclusively reported in this morning show that the mishap board a Latam flight from Sydney to Auckland was the likely cause of the incident. About 50 passengers on the flight required medical attention. In a statement, Boeing said the latest memo is a precautionary measure and a reminder to operators to follow an earlier service bulletin to inspect and maintain seat switches. An investigation is ongoing, and Boeing said it defers to authorities on any findings. And a tech outage at McDonald's disrupted operations at restaurants across the globe today with some locations unable to open and close stores except credit card payments or receive orders from apps and kiosks. Customers took to social media to complain. McDonald's said the outage was not related to a cybersecurity incident and that it was working to resolve what it described as a computer system outage. And that's What's News for this week. Today's show is produced by Pierre Bienaimé and Anthony Bansie. What's News is hosted by me, Annmarie Fertoli, and Luke Vargas. Additional support this week from Tali Arbel, J.R. Whalen, and Ariana Aspuru. Michael LaValle wrote our theme music. Our supervising producers are Sandra Kilhof and Michael Kosmides. Aisha Al-Muslim is our development producer. Scott Saloway and Chris Zinsley are our deputy editors. And Philana Patterson is the Wall Street Journal's Head of News Audio. Tomorrow, you can look out for our weekly markets wrap up, What's News in Markets. And on Sunday, you can hear all about political reporter Jimmy Vielkind's travel to Florida and discussions with the Republican voters there in the latest episode of Chasing the Base. We'll be back with our regular show on Monday morning. Thanks so much for listening.