Annmarie Fertoli : Bitcoin ETFs are struggling to get buy-in from financial advisors. If something were to happen with bitcoin, if it were to crash, that could really cause some sort of liability for the financial advisors.Annmarie Fertoli : And lobbyists turned to the Senate after the U.S house approves a bill to ban TikTok or force a sale of the app. Plus the European Central Bank makes a technical but consequential change affecting European banks. It's Wednesday, March 13th. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. This is the PM edition of What's News, the top headlines and business stories that move the world today. The European Central Bank has unveiled a rare makeover to the inner workings of monetary policy and a change that's important for the economy and investors. Reporter Tom Fairless says, "The goal is to gradually reduce the ECB's footprint in the financial system by changing how the banks interact with it and each other." So it's a change that won't be seen by most businesses and households. It affects how the ECB gets its interest rates that it sets into the economy, how it engages with the banks and how the banks engage with each other for the interest rates to level off at the place where the ECB wants them. Now the interest rates have risen because there's this inflationary environment suddenly and central banks are reducing their bond holdings. They're shrinking the amount of money in the system. And in Europe, a lot of this transmission takes place through banks, and the banks really haven't lent to each other in a significant way since the global financial crisis. The trust broke down back then, and since then they've used the ECB as the intermediary. And this step by the ECB is an attempt to nudge banks back to a place where they can start lending to each other again.Annmarie Fertoli : The makeover has no bearing on the ECB's interest rate decisions. This is the first year some big companies like Duke Energy, and Whirlpool are taking a hit from a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax or CAMT. The tax targets companies with high profits and low taxes. It's supposed to act like a sort of backstop for companies averaging at least a billion dollars in financial statement profits over three years. But there's still some confusion over the new tax because the Treasury Department still hasn't detailed the rules for calculating it. Here now with more is our US tax policy reporter, Richard Rubin. Welcome back, Richard. Hey, thanks for having me.Annmarie Fertoli : Okay, so this tax, CAMT, was part of the Inflation Reduction Act. Is it working as intended? That's one thing we're still trying to figure out and we don't have a full picture. It took effect for calendar year companies starting with calendar year 2023, but the first tax returns actually won't be filed until later this year. We're in a very early stage of trying to figure out whether this thing is working. One thing we can say is it is requiring some companies to pay taxes that they otherwise would not have paid, and that's what we're seeing show up in the financial statements that companies have filed in the past couple of months.Annmarie Fertoli : And before we get to those financial statements, why hasn't the Treasury Department released the rules? This sounds pretty confusing. That's because the tax itself is confusing and complicated. So the Treasury Department is working on those rules. They're expected soon-ish. Those will be the proposed rules and then the companies will have, and others will have time to comment on them and then they'll be final rules. One would imagine that those should be done by the time the actual returns on extension are due later this year. But yeah, it has proven to be one of the more difficult regulatory projects that the Treasury Department has tried to do.Annmarie Fertoli : So how are big companies making due in the meantime? What are we finding out from their securities filings? So we're seeing a few things. We're seeing some companies say "We're subject to CAMT," and I don't know what that means. I don't know whether that means they're above the billion dollar threshold and they're paying it or they're just above the billion dollar threshold and calculating their taxes both ways, but not paying it. Because the way this works is you calculate the regular corporate tax and you calculate the CAMT and then you pay whichever is higher. So we're seeing some of that. And then we're seeing some companies say KKR and Blackstone for example, "We expect to pay CAMT," or, "e are paying CAMT," but then they don't provide any detail on how much. And then we're seeing other companies, Whirlpool, Duke, Energy, a couple of financial companies actually disclose numbers and say, "Okay, well this is how much of a liability we had for CAMT in 2023."Annmarie Fertoli : So what else is in store for the companies affected by CAMT? A couple things are worth emphasizing. One is what causes companies to go into CAMT is things like the treatment of stock-based compensation. And so that's different for gap and for tax, and that can cause companies to pay it. Another important thing to know is there are some tax breaks that are allowed under CAMT. There are some things that you still can do as a company to be really profitable and pay relatively little below 15%. And then the last thing I would add is that if you pay CAMT in 2023, say you pay $30 million in CAMT and then in 2024 you're back in the regular tax system and your regular tax is higher than your CAMT, you can use that 30 million to cover that cost. So in some ways it accelerates when companies are paying and you may see companies be in CAMT some years and out of CAMT other years. It is a devilishly complex tax added to a devilishly complex tax system.Annmarie Fertoli : That's Wall Street Journal US Tax Policy Reporter, Richard Rubin. Coming up the price of bitcoin topped $73,000 today. And individual investors have poured billions of dollars into bitcoin ETFs since they launched in January. But why aren't the ETFs drawing in financial advisors? More after the break. Even dollar stores are starting to feel a squeeze from higher prices. Dollar Tree said it will close nearly 1,000 Family Dollar locations over the next few years. The company cited inflation, store theft and merger indigestion since it won the hard-fought battle to acquire Family Dollar, its one-time rival Back in 2015. Company executives said, "Persistent Inflation and reduced government benefits are putting more pressure on customers, especially those at lower income levels." McDonald's also said it's cash-strapped consumers are pulling back. At an investor conference the company's finance chief said Lower-income. Consumers are increasingly spending their savings and opting for grocery stores instead of restaurants. McDonald's says it's rolling out promotions and bundle deals in response. And while we're on the topic of higher prices, let's face it, we're paying more at the grocery store and restaurants these days. We'd like to hear from you. What questions do you have about food price Inflation and what it means for your family budget? Send us a note or even better record a voice memo on your phone and send it to wnpod@WSJ.com. That's W-N-P-O-D@WSJ.com. You can also leave us a voicemail at 212-416-4328. Just be sure to include your name and location. We might use it on the show. There was a lot of attention around the launch of bitcoin exchange-traded funds in January and bitcoin has been on a rally topping $73,000 today. The bitcoin ETFs allow everyday investors to buy the digital assets directly through their brokerage accounts instead of indirectly like going through a crypto exchange or to funds that track bitcoin's price through futures contracts. Since the launch, individual investors have poured billions of dollars into these ETFs, but the ETFs target market, financial advisors who oversee trillions of dollars in client assets, are still on the sidelines. So why aren't they buying in here now? With MORE is Wall Street Journal Markets reporter Vicky Huang. Welcome back Vicki. Thank you for having me.Annmarie Fertoli : Okay, so why are financial advisors staying out right now? So a lot of these financial advisors, they work in the wealth management divisions of big banks like Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, JP, Morgan, Wells, Fargo, et cetera. And in order to sell these bought bitcoin ETFs and pitch them to their customers, that would require approval from these wealth management platforms. And so far that has not come down yet.Annmarie Fertoli : So why the reluctance? We all know that bitcoin is a very volatile asset and adding a spot bitcoin ETF to a customer's portfolio could really shift the risk profile of a portfolio. So if something were to happen with a bitcoin, that could really cause some sort of liability for the financial advisors. Some institutions such as smaller registered investment advisory firms, hedge funds and other institutions have bought the spot bitcoin ETFs. And if clients were to ask their financial advisors to buy the spot bitcoin ETFs for them, they can still do that.Annmarie Fertoli : I would think the current rally would be an incentive for more financial advisors to get involved, but it doesn't seem to be having that effect. I've talked to some financial advisors and it's true, a lot of them are getting a lot of client inquiries about all kinds of questions about accessing Bitcoin. And it seems like right now many wealth management platforms are taking a wait and see approach, or they're doing due diligence on these spot bitcoin ETFs to see if they can be added to the wealth management platform. But the price surge has definitely generated a lot of interest in retail customers.Annmarie Fertoli : If financial advisors continue to stay on the sidelines, what could that mean for the future of Crypto ETFs, which were really hailed as a game changer when they launched? Financial advisors who collectively oversee by some estimates $30 trillion in client assets in the United States. If they cannot access these spot bitcoin ETFs, that would probably mean some sort of stagnation in asset growth for these ETFs at some point, just because right now it's still unclear according to some skeptics, whether these flows into the new bitcoin ETFs are new money coming into the space or just people shifting their assets from more expensive products tied to bitcoin to these cheaper and easy to use ETFs?Annmarie Fertoli : That's Wall Street Journal markets reporter Vicky Huang. As expected, house lawmakers have overwhelmingly approved a bill that would ban TikTok from operating in the US or force a sale of the company. The measure calls for TikTok's parent, the Chinese company ByteDance to divest itself from the platform or face a ban from app stores and web hosting services in the US. Lawmakers have said TikTok's ownership potentially gives Beijing a way to collect data on Americans and influence public opinion. The short video app has also faced scrutiny over the way its algorithm selects content to show users. A TikTok spokeswoman says, "The ban is based on zero evidence." Critics of the bill say it unfairly singles out TikTok it now heads to the Senate where its fate is more uncertain. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer has declined to say whether he would bring it up for a vote. President Biden has said he would sign the bill if it reached his desk. A Georgia judge has dismissed six counts in the election interference indictment, former President, Donald Trump, and five co-defendants. The counts were related to allegations Trump and others, including former lawyer Rudy Giuliani illegally tried to influence the state's elected officials to violate their oaths of office in attempts to unlawfully influence the outcome of the 2020 presidential election. In total, 35 counts remain in the indictment. A representative for Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis didn't immediately respond to request for comment. Willis is facing a motion to be disqualified from the case on misconduct allegations. And that's what's news for this Wednesday afternoon. Today's show was produced by Anthony Bansie and Pierre Bienaim, with supervising producer Michael Kosmides. I'm Annmarie Fertoli for the Wall Street Journal. We'll be back with a new show tomorrow morning. Thanks for listening.