 Alexia Navalny's family is trying to bury him. They planned a funeral today for the Russian opposition leader. It took weeks for them just to claim his body from prison so how can he be laid to rest? I mean, Martinez, that's Stephen Skipe, and this is a first from NPR News. A Palestinian man survived a chaotic scramble around trucks delivering food and Gaza. I was left lying on the ground for two hours because there were so many injured. What does the violence reveal about the desperation of people living under fire? Also scientists are cloning pigs and growing them just to produce organs to transplant into people. It's no longer a science fiction experiment, it's actually reality. We visit a farm where that reality is taking shape. No science fiction here, just the news you need to start your day. Here and now, anytime, is a show that helps you make sense of the news. We're not about clickbait headlines or salacious sound bites. And in 20 to 30 minutes every afternoon, we'll make you an expert on your world. Ease into your evening with a steadier, calmer lens on the news. Listen to here and now, anytime, from NPR and WBR, wherever you get your podcasts. This message comes from NPR sponsor Cox. With gig speeds everywhere, you have the power to stay connected with the speed you need on all your connected devices. Learn more at Cox.com. The NPR app cuts through the noise, bringing you local, national, and global coverage. No paywalls, no profits, no nonsense. Download it in your app store today. Allys of Alexey Navalny say the late Russian opposition leader will be laid to rest near his home in Moscow today. The announced funeral comes two weeks after Navalny's death on their mysterious circumstances in an Arctic prison colony and a standoff over his burial. Navalny's widow, Yulia says her husband was murdered on the orders of Russia President Vladimir Putin, a charge that Kremlin denies. Here she is speaking this week in front of the European Parliament. My husband will never see what the beautiful Russia of the future will look like, but we must say it. And I will do my best to make his dream come true. They will fall and the beautiful future will come. Thank you. For now what comes is a funeral and NPR's Charles Mainz is in Moscow near where that funeral is reported to take place either Charles. Where are you exactly? You know I'm in Madinah. This is in southeastern Moscow. This is the neighborhood where Alexey Navalny lived with his family, with his wife Yulia and his children he raised there. And it's also where he made his name and opposition politics going up to the ranks of initially an anti-corruption campaigner here in Russia against state companies and later becoming really the leader of the opposition over the past decade. And what is happening in that neighborhood exactly? Well that's really the question. Alexey Navalny's family says that the Russian government has repeatedly thwarted efforts to organize memorial service they hope to hold here today. They say authorities initially delayed the release of Navalny's body, then pressured the family to hold a private ceremony out of the public eye and even prevented them from renting any facility in Moscow that might be an appropriate place for a mass memorial. So instead we're here in Madinah. This is near a North-Edox church where not far from Navalny's home. This will be followed by a burial at a nearby cemetery and yet even that may prove problematic. Why would that be? Well again this is coming from Navalny's political team. They say authorities are now threatening the funeral services company that's supposed to bring Navalny's body to this church for the service. So we don't really know yet if this funeral will actually happen but I can tell you what I've seen so far. There's a heavy security presence here. Police have cordoned off the church with steel fencing where mourners hope to pay their final respects. There are dozens of police fans nearby and riot police and steel fencing along this route across a bridge that leads to the cemetery as well. I should add that you know Navalny's immediate family is wife Julia, his children are not expected to be here today simply because it's too dangerous for them. Navalny's parents however are still in Russia. In fact you might recall it was Navalny's mother, Ludmila Navalny, who spent that grueling week in the Arctic Circle fighting the authorities to retrieve her son's remains and that brings us to this point. What is the Kremlin Putin side saying about this? Well the Kremlin you know it insists there's it has no interest in these proceedings at all. Putin hasn't said a word about Navalny since his death but you know keep in mind the Putin never spoke about Navalny when he was alive. It was part of a strategy to treat him as a political non-entity here. Yet police actions would appear to tell a different story. We saw several hundred Navalny supporters detained for merely attending these makeshift memorials in the days after Navalny's death. And now the question today is how many more could face arrests for just attempting to attend this final send-off? The Moscow authorities they haven't issued orders for bidding people from attending the church service but it certainly seems like they're doing everything possible to make sure this funeral doesn't turn into something resembling a protest. NPR's Charles Mainz is in southern Moscow where people have been planning a funeral for Alexei Navalny today. Charles thank you. Thank you. Sometimes a single image gets across the scale of devastation in Gaza like one of the that you see from overhead showing whole neighborhoods destroyed as Israel responds to last October's Hamas attack. Sometimes though a single incident gets across the desperation of those still alive. One came yesterday when hungry people rushed to trucks distributing food in two locations. Palestinians say more than a hundred people were killed. They say Israeli troops opened fire on the crowd. Israelis contend their troops fired weapons to defend themselves and many of those killed were trampled or run over. NPR's Jan Rafe is trying to figure out what is known. Hi there, Jane. Hi Steve. How if it all can you verify what happened here? It's really difficult. It's just hard to get reliable information from Gaza. And one of the reasons for that is Israel bans foreign journalists from there. Unless you're with the Israeli military for instance it's impossible to get in and report what's happening on the ground. We did speak with one of the survivors at my del Haj salim who's in hospital in Gaza City. He said he was waiting for an atruck in the hope of getting some food for his three children when he was shot in the leg and then the hand. I was left lying on the ground for two hours because there were so many injured. Then after two hours there came a cart with a horse and it was then that he took me. You can see from satellite images or possibly drone images released by the Israeli military people completely overwhelming trucks. There's so little food reaching Gaza it just speaks to the desperation of people who have no other way of feeding their children. It's also worth noting Steve that the Israeli military said the trucks were operated by private contractors as part of an aid operation that it has been overseeing. UN agencies which would normally deliver aid say Israel is imposing severe obstacles to access. And I want to understand those obstacles a little better because you have people around the world including in the United States who contend that they would like humanitarian aid to be reaching Gaza. Why isn't that happening? Well according to aid officials there are few reasons. One is we have to remember Gaza is one of the most densely populated places on earth. And for the past 16 years it's been under siege with access controlled by Israel and to some extent Egypt. Israeli air strikes over the course of the war five months of it have damaged or destroyed most of Gaza's infrastructure. But really the main reason is restrictions by Israel on aid crossing into Gaza. Before the war 500 trucks a day entered with food and basic supplies. And that's down to as low as a couple of dozen now some days. Those main UN agencies which would normally take the lead are unable to do that now due to security and political factors. What are some aid routes that are working? Well yesterday I went with the Jordanian military and one of their air drops over northern Gaza. Jordan has taken the lead on air dropping aid with participation from some other countries. Those drops require a lot of coordination including from the Israelis. And yesterday was the first time in many weeks that aid was dropped into northern Gaza. Having said that, they're generally considered a last resort because of the expense, the logistics and the fact that they can't carry as much as trucks. Save the children aid groups CEO Yanti Soropto says Israel needs to open the other existing land crossings to allow an aid. We get the intent of people and we welcome that attempt to get more aid in the Gaza. The fastest most effective most efficient way to do it is to open up more crossings. In the meantime though, aid officials say even more children are at risk of starving to death. And Piers Janeraf, thanks so much. Thank you. Science is stranger than fiction. Yeah, give this scientist have started cloning genetically modified pigs with organs designed to be transplanted into people. And PR Health Corresponder Rob Stein recently became the first journalist to tour one of the research farms breeding these creatures. Hi there, Rob. Morning Steve. I don't know. Should I say congratulations? Well, it was definitely a very interesting experience. I have to say that. Okay, so what are they doing and where? So I can't say exactly where the farm is located. The company that runs it, Rivercore asks me not to for security reasons. But it's in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains near Rivercore's headquarters in Blacksburg, Virginia. And before heading to the farm, I watched as company scientists edited the DNA and pig skin cells in the lab and then fuse those cells with pig eggs to create cloned pig embryos. The company then implants them in the wounds of adult female pigs to give birth to cloned genetically modified piglets. Which grow up to be independent animals more or less? Yes, exactly. And that's where the research farm comes in. Four months after the cloned pig embryos are implanted into adult female pigs, they give birth to cloned piglets each with 10 identical modifications designed to make their hearts, liver, kidneys and other organs compatible for transplantation into people. David Ayers, who runs Rivercore, hooked me into a barn to see some of the newborn cloned piglets. Every cell in the body of this animal has those same genetic modifications. If you want, you know, you can hold one. Yeah, that'd be great. Okay, what's it like to hold one? Well, you know, it's the first time I've ever held a little piglet and he was really cute and cuddly, very solid but soft, but kind of squirming. It couldn't wait to get back to his bond to continue feeding. But he's part of this experiment. That's right. And the company actually has already started testing organs from these pigs in baboons. And in the bodies of people who have been declared brain dead, surgeons have even implanted two pig hearts into men who had run out of other options. What questions does this experimentation raise? Well, you know, see, this kind of thing has raised some fears, you know, about accidentally spreading some dangerous pig virus to people and about sacrificing thousands of the genetically modified pigs just to harvest their organs. Sid Johnson is a bioethicist that's SUNY, Upstate Medical University in Syracuse, New York. And I talked to her about this. They're treated like machines for the sole purpose of being disassembled to provide spare parts for humans. And I think the hubris of a human created built for purpose animal should really give us pause. Now see, he he errs argues that the company treats the animals humanly and he says, you know, if U.S. slaughter's millions of pigs every year for food, I would argue that this is a, you know, a higher use for these animals. Certainly, I think a higher use than using these animals for food. The company envisions a day not too far off when farms scattered around the country are breeding herds of the genetically modified clone pigs to supply organs for transplant patients. And PR Health correspondent Rob Stein, the story we can't hear anywhere else. Rob, thanks so much. You bet Steve. And that's a first for this Friday March 1st. I'm Steve Innskipe. Enemy Martinez, a first is produced by Claire Moreshima, Ben Abrams, and Julie Deppinbrock. Our editors are Mark Catcoff, Hannah Block, Scott Hensley, A.J. My, and Ben Adler. We get engineering support from Stacey Abbott, our technical director is at Coleman, and our executive producer is Eric Aguilada. Can I name two more people for you? Aisha Roscoe and Scott Simon, the people who bring you up first on Saturday, in this feeder wherever you get your podcasts. One all of NPR without relying on your radio, visit npr.org to be connected to your local station wherever you are and wherever the news takes you. Get your vital mix of rigorously reported local and national stories all live free and at your fingertips at npr.org. Ever feel like you missed the big point of the last movie you watched? At Pop Culture Happy Hour, a podcast by and four pop culture addicts, we'll talk about the latest and greatest culture in-depth. For talking points for your next happy hour, check out Pop Culture Happy Hour, four days a week only from NPR. The economy can sometimes feel like a big scary wilderness filled with jargon and unreadable charts. The Planet Money Podcast is here to help. We love spreadsheets. Yeah, let us be your guide to the global economy. We brought snacks. Is that trail mix? It's actually gork. That's Planet Money from NPR.