 President Biden said what he wanted in Gaza. We're going into Ramadan. It should be nothing happening. Instead the war continues into the Muslim holy month. A temporary ceasefire could point to a longer piece, so why is it so hard to achieve? I mean, Martinez, that's Stephen Skipe, and this is up first from NPR News. Hades Prime Minister can't return to his own country. Haysian gangs have coordinated attacks on his government, so could one of their leaders become Hades next president. And in a moment of global conflict, a movie about the creation of the atomic bomb sweeps the Academy Awards. For better or for worse, we're all living in Oppenheimer's World, so I would really like to dedicate this to the peacemakers everywhere. Other Oscar winners referred to conflicts in Gaza and Ukraine. What was the show like? Our correspondent put on a gown and went. Stay with us. We've got the news you need to start your day. The following message comes from an PR sponsor, Sadfa. Founder and CEO Ron Redson is on a mission to bring quality sleep to more people. Health and wellness are so tied to quality sleep. And I'm trying to tell everyone, look, you have to treat sleep like an activity. Because I believe sleep is the most important thing in your life. To learn more, go to sda.com slash npr. This message comes from an PR sponsor, Cox, with gig speeds everywhere. You have the power to stay connected with the speed you need on all your connected devices. Learn more at Cox.com. On the StoryCore podcast, we believe a lot of the most interesting stories are right there in front of us, waiting to be told. So every week we share a candid, unscripted conversation between two people around the themes of love, loss, family, and friendship. These aren't experts or celebrities, just everyday people like you and me. Listen now to the StoryCore podcast from NPR. Muslims are marking the start of the Holy Month of Ramadan today. And there is is yet no ceasefire between Israel and Hamas. The US with Arab mediators has been trying for weeks to pause the war during this Holy Month of Daily fasting introspection and worship. Here's what President Biden told MSNBC over the weekend. I want to see a ceasefire. And I'm starting with a major, major exchange of prisoners for a six week period. We're going into Ramadan. It should be nothing happening. And we should build off that ceasefire. Should be nothing happening, he says. NPR International correspondent Aya Petrawi is covering what is happening. Hey there, Aya. Hi, good morning, Steve. Why isn't there a deal? So the main issue is over what kind of ceasefire this is going to be. The US, as you heard by Densei, backs six weeks, a humanitarian truce in which 40 to 50 Israeli hostages are released and much more aid flows into Gaza. And the US hopes that they can build on this during the talks and make it extend. But Hamas wants an end to the war. Or at least US guarantees that any truce will be extended. And they're using hostages as leverage. Now Israel agrees with the six week pause in the fighting. But Israel's military and political leadership, they're insisting on a military operation in southern Gaza to dismantle Hamas battalions in Rafa. That is where more than a million Palestinians have been displaced, many are living in tents, and they have nowhere left to go. You know, I watched a good part of this interview the president had with Jonathan K. Part of MSNBC. And it's a really revealing exchange. The US has said, don't invade Rafa where all of these civilians are taking shelter along with Hamas. Jonathan K. Part says, is that a red line? Meaning you'll really respond if Israel invades Rafa. Biden says, yes, it's a red line. But then added there are no red lines when it came to US support for Israel's defense. Meaning he doesn't really want to hammer Israel. If they do this, how does Israel respond then? Well, the response has come from Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. He spoke to political after Biden's remarks. And he said Israel will go to Rafa because his red line, he says, is October 7th, making sure that this Hamas attack that killed 1200 people in Israel never happens again. And he also bluntly repeated his opposition to Biden's support for a two-state solution, saying his positions have the backing of the majority of Israelis who he says, quote, don't want to see a Palestinian state. Netanyahu argues that a Palestinian state would be a security threat for Israel. Is there any indication that the Israeli leader has changed course at all in response to requests from the United States? Well, there's things he hasn't done, for example. Like he hasn't gotten in the way of Biden's efforts to have the US drop food from planes, to people starving in northern Gaza. And Israel says it is working closely on a sea route that the US and other countries want to use to send aid that way into northern Gaza. But what he also hasn't done is what aid groups say would be the most efficient, most direct, quickest way to get food in, which is open border crossings with the north of Gaza. Now land crossings is what the aid groups want. So what are conditions like in Gaza right now? People are absolutely exhausted, Steve. Everyone that NPR's producer, NSB, there speaks to wants, reprieve, you know, Gaza's health ministry says more than 30,000 people have been killed in the past five months, most of them by Israeli air strikes. And people also just need clean running water, electricity, and food. And the usual traditions of Ramadan are impossible in these conditions. Have a listen to what Sena Manajar says. He's a 62 year old man who's fled his home in Gaza. He says it's not right that people are living in tents and can't visit with family or perform nightly prayers in mosques because of bombings. But he also says it's not fair that some Hamas leaders are living comfortably in exile while the people of Gaza are eating excrement, though he used a different word for that. Mm. NPR's Aya Batraway, thanks so much. Really appreciate it. Thank you, Steve. For more coverage and analysis and different views, go to NPR.org slash mid-east updates. Um, armed gangs control much of Haiti's capital as part of a revolt. Yeah, many groups in the country have been working to remove the country's prime minister and they conveniently struck when he was out of the country. He's still not able to return. Ariel Henrias, so unpopular, he wasn't even allowed into the neighboring Dominican Republic, the other country on that island. And it's in the neighboring Dominican Republic that we find NPR's Aya Batraway, good morning. Hey, good morning, Steve. How'd the prime minister get into such a jam? This standoff begins about two weeks ago. Prime Minister Ariel Henri announced this that he intends to delay elections until next year. And that's when these gangs who used to fight each other started working together to overthrow the government. They started attacking government targets, police stations, the port, the airport. And they've been trading heavy fire with police so much so that the prime minister can't even fly into his own country. And last week, as you mentioned, he tried to fly here to Santo Domingo, but the president of the Dominican Republic, Luis Avina de R has made it clear that Ariel Henri is persona non grata here. And that's because he says Henri is so hated that he would pose a security threat here in the Dominican Republic where there's a lot of Haitians. Wow. So if he can't even get into the neighboring country and can't get home, who replaces him as Haiti's leader? I mean, that's the question. He is still hanging on. But the jockeying for his spot has already begun. There is one gang leader in particular, Jimmy Gerrise, who is known as barbecue. And he is clearly gunning for the top job in the country. Last week, he said if Henri doesn't resign, there will be civil war. But at the same time, he's really trying to exploit the division between classes in Haiti. The last thing the elite in Haiti want is these gangs to take over. But Barbecue says, look, I'm protecting the interests of the poor. I'm making sure that the leader they don't like who they think is illegitimate will never return to Haiti. And we've also heard a name from the pastor, Guy Philippe, a former co-leader who served time at an American prison. And he says he wants to be president. And one of the core, one of his core promises is that he would offer amnesty to gang leaders. But let's not forget that these gangs have sowed chaos across Haiti. They've attacked the civilian population ruthlessly. Hundreds of thousands of Haitians have been displaced by that violence. And nearly half the country is going hungry. I guess we should note the United States has an embassy there is very influential in the country. So what is the US doing? Well, over the weekend, there was an evacuation. We were told from the American Embassy. We were told by US Southern Command that they flew aircraft to the US Embassy in Port of Prince to evacuate some staff and also to bring in some more military personnel to beef up security at the embassy. The US Embassy in Port of Prince said it asked for more security because of quote, heightened gang violence. So US Marines were sent there to essentially beef up security. Do people see a path toward calm? The answer you'll get from the US and from the prime minister is that a Kenyan led international peacekeeping force can do that. But that mission was approved last year by the UN and it has faced hurdle after hurdle and it's unclear when that might actually happen. Caracom, the block of Caribbean countries is holding an emergency meeting today. They have been trying to solve this, but they've gotten nowhere. Now they're inviting the US, France, Canada, the UN, and Brazil to the talks to try and bring this to some order. And Pierre Zeta Peralta, thanks so much. Thank you, Steve. And now the envelope, please. This is an actual emergency. Didn't need a charge. Oppenheimer blew up the Oscars. The three-hour movie about the man who created the atomic bomb picked up seven Academy Awards. And Pierre's Mandelite de Barco was in the audience last night, either Mandelite. Hello, good morning. So not a huge surprise that Oppenheimer would do so well. No, no, actually Oppenheimer was the favorite coming into the Oscars. Director Christopher Nolan got his first Oscar and his movie One Best Picture. He's been an evangelist for IMAX in the big screen theatrical experience. And this is what he said during his speech. Movies are just a little bit over a hundred years old. I mean, imagine being there a hundred years into painting or theatre. We don't know where this incredible journey is going from here. But to know that you think that I'm a meaningful part of it means the world to me. Oppenheimer also got awards for Best Cinematographer, Best Original Score, Best Supporting Actor, Robert Downey Jr., and Best Actor, Killian Murphy, who played the title role. We made a film about the man who created the atomic bomb. And for better or for worse, we're all living in Oppenheimer's world. So I would really like to dedicate this to the peacemakers everywhere. Mandelite weren't there some other mentions of Warren Peas? There were. The documentary Twenty Days in Marriople became the first film from Ukraine to in an Oscar. And as he held up his award, the film's director, journalist, Mr. Slough Cherenoff, said he wishes he never had to make the film. I wish to be able to exchange this to Russia, never attacking Ukraine, never occupying our cities. Director Jonathan Glazer, who is movie about Auschwitz and the Holocaust's zone of interest, won Best International Feature, and he was on stage with his producer. Right now we stand here as men who refute their Jewishness in the Holocaust being hijacked by an occupation which has led to conflict for so many innocent people. You know Steve, the Oscar ceremony actually started a few minutes late because there was a protest over Gaza in the street. The streets were blocked off and I and all the rest of the audience had to walk down sunset Boulevard in their gowns and tuxes, you know, glamorous Hollywood. Once you finally made it in there, did anything surprise you about the awards? Well, you know, the movie poor things. It swept the technical categories last night and its star Emma Stone beat out rival Lily Gladstone from Killers of the Flower Moon. And Martin Scorsese's movie didn't get a single award. There were no envelope mix-ups or nominees slapping hosts like in past ceremonies, but, you know, in one bit actor John Cena paid homage to a famous Oscar's moment from 1974 when a streaker ran across the stage naked. Well, you know, you do what you can to salute the past. Go on, go on. You know, among the speeches, Davei and Joy Randolph was really quite touching. She won for best supporting actress in the movie The Holdovers. For so long, I've always wanted to be different. And now I realize I just need to be myself. Okay, it's beautiful, man, to leave. But I want to ask about one more film. I've got two colleagues here. I don't want to name them, but one of them might be Michelle Martin. So they're going by each other the other day and they say, good morning, Barbie. Good morning, Barbie. So how did Barbie do? Well, Barbie, or maybe you're Ken, uh, Director Greater Gerwig. She didn't get the award for her screenplay and produced her Marco Robbie, played Barbie, didn't get to pick up the best picture Oscar. Ryan Gosling didn't win for best supporting actor and his song, I'm just Ken, lost out to Billy Eilish's Barbie song. But he did give a show stopping performance. You know, everyone in the audience was singing and dancing along and you could feel the onstage energy all the way up to the rafters where I was sitting. Manly thanks so much. Thank you. That's impure as Manly is a Marco. And that's up first for this Monday, March 11th. I'm Steve Inskeep. And I'm Amy Martinez. Today's episode of Up First was edited by Mark Catcoft, our Neil Rose Friedman, Lisa Thompson, and Ben Adler was produced by Zia Butch, Ben Abrams, and Milton Gavada. We get an engineer support from Stacey Abbott and our technical director is Zach Coleman as always start your day here with us tomorrow and find more in depth cover to the stories we brought you on the radio on NPR's Morning Edition, the radio show co-hosted by the same people who bring you this podcast. You can find your station if you need to by going to stations.npr. It can be hard nowadays to find a space where we're able to listen to each other, where we can agree to disagree. It's why I'm proud of 1A, a show that's made for you and by you. We're not about snark, we're about dialogue. Join the discussion in me, your host, Jen White, by listening to the 1A podcast from WAMU and NPR. Getting bogged down by how much new music there is out there, there's a lot. Consider a daily dose of the All Songs Considered podcast. It's the easiest way to get tuned into the music world. We spend hours coming through the new music universe from emerging bands to time-tested icons to bring you your next favorite artist. To get up on your music know-how, listen to All Songs Considered from NPR.