 Russia's presidential election starts today in Vladimir Putin's virtual lock to win a fifth term. It's not necessary to be convincing so that your result is believed. So the outcome is known, why is there still intrigue? I mean, Martinez, that's Leyla Faddle, and this is a first from NPR News. A firsthand glimpse of the chaos in Haiti as our correspondent finally makes it across the border. What conditions like on the ground in the country's second largest city? Anticoggle pulls in about face from welcoming migrants seeking asylum to evicting them. Not only is it not the right way to go, it's going to lead to more cost down the line. Why is the city changing course and how has a similar policy fared in New York City? Today with us, we've got all the news you need to start your day. Listening to the news can feel like a journey. The 1A podcast is here to guide you beyond the headlines and cut through the noise. Listen to 1A where we celebrate your freedom to listen by getting to the heart of the story together. Only from NPR. This message comes from NPR sponsor Cox. With gig speeds everywhere, you have the power to stay connected with the speed you need on all your connected devices. Learn more at Cox.com. We know you care about what you watch, what you read and what you listen to. NPR's pop culture happy hour podcast is with you four days a week to make sure that time is well spent. The latest, greatest shows, books, music, and movies, it's all on the pop culture happy hour podcast from NPR. Listen tonight. Russia's presidential election begins today and yes, Vladimir Putin will almost certainly win. This is Russia. Nothing happens without cement rig. Now Putin is widely expected to secure a fifth term in office extending his hold on power through at least 2030, maybe longer. So do Russian voters really have a choice? And Paira Strauss means is on the line from Moscow. Good morning. Good morning. So you were out at polling stations. What have you been seeing? Yeah, I was out at a polling station at a school in central Moscow. When voting got underway this morning, there was a small but steady trickle of voters including Anastasia and Alexei, both doctors who work in Russia's state hospital system. And when we spoke outside, I asked, I thought the obvious question is Russian democracy healthy. Hello. Where is it? Where is it? Where is it? Where is it? Where is it? Anastasia who can hear their chuckling says yes, it is. Alexei had a different take that democracy doesn't exist anywhere. But either way, they said Russia's faith in President Putin was strong and that's who they cast their ballots for. So it sounds like Putin is up by two votes then? Yeah, he's on his way. But of course it's early going. There are three full days of voting ahead. That's a first for presidential elections here. The government is also pushing new online voting in about a third of the country. Previously, it had only been tested in Moscow. And this election has distinct for another reason. Russia's military is securing voting for people in areas of Ukraine that Moscow claims to have annexed, in other words, the occupied territories. Now the Central Election Commission here says all of these moves are designed to offer greater voter access. But Kremlin critics and it must be said independent election experts argue these moves open the door to potential vote rigging. Or if you look at Russia's recent history of elections, more vote rigging. The track record here isn't good. Yeah, but Putin is popular. At least polls tell us so. So why should anyone be surprised or even outraged if or more like when he wins? Yeah, there's no question. Putin has his supporters, particularly among older Russians, attracted to Putin's blend of Soviet nostalgia, nationalist conservatism. So Putin would no doubt do well, but would he do as well as these polls claim? If you believe media reports that cite government leaks, the Kremlin has instructed regional governors and other state officials to secure a historic result for the president. One that shows that people are behind Putin not despite, but because of his decision to invade Ukraine. Abaskaliyamov, a former speech writer for the Kremlin, turned critic in exile, says this generated mandate is about maintaining Putin's legitimacy at home, even if there's a danger of overdoing it. It's not enough just to produce the result. It's necessary to be convincing so that your result is believed. Now, there are other candidates though, right? Yeah, there are three members from various doom of factions in the parliament that are in the race. They all basically support Putin's policies and don't seem particularly interested in competing. Meanwhile, those who are did not make it on the ballot to anti-war candidates were disqualified over supposed registration violations. And of course, Putin's fiercest challenger, Alexei Navalny, died in a remote prison column under a circumstance that still aren't clear. Navalny's allies certainly think his death or murder was time to these elections. In fact, they're calling people to honor Navalny's last known political wish to protest the vote by swarming the polling stations at noon on Sunday. And here's Charles Mainz in Moscow. Thank you for your reporting. Thank you. In Haiti, there aren't many certainties in life, but chaos may be one of them. After all, this is a country that over the years has experienced coups, transitional governments, assassinations, and gang violence. But the turmoil of the last two weeks has reached new levels. There has been no leadership, no law in order in the capital and a dwindling supply of humanitarian aid. The country has been effectively cut off from the outside world with armed gangs in control of most of Port Prince. And PR's Ada Peralta has managed to get across the border no easy feat, and he's in Haiti's second city of capatian. Hey Ada, glad you're able to get in there. Hey, Leyla. So what have you seen so far? I mean, look like happens in these situations. We've seen a lot of normal restaurants are open. People are out buying groceries here in capatian, which used to be a tourist hub. There's music and dancing and people at bars, but it also doesn't take long to see the signs that something is wrong here. Fuel is running out. It's nearly twice as expensive as it used to be. And some towns up and down this northern coast are in complete darkness. They haven't had consistent electricity since this crisis has started. And that means when President Joe Vennel Mouiz was assassinated in 2021, and also as we were driving in, we ran into large groups of Haitians who were getting ready to try to run away from this place. They were about to try to cross the border into the Dominican Republic. Wow. So as you cross in, you see this group of people trying to escape. What are people you're meeting telling you about the situation? I mean, the people I've spoken to tell me that they're happy that in these parts of Haiti, at least, the gunfire has stopped. They say that before Prime Minister Ariel Henri promised to resign, they heard non-stop gunfire in the evening. And now some schools and some universities have reopened. But I've also heard a lot of desolation. Haitians feel abandoned. They feel that after their president was killed, no one was listening. And you know, they don't just mean the international community. They mean their own government. I spoke to one man who used to work as a tourist guide. And now he's just trying to find any kind of work to keep food on his table. And he says what's happening in Haiti is not just criminal gangs revolting. He says this is an awakening. He said that Haitians have lived in poverty and neglect and misery for too long. And they're just fed up. And this is an uprising. He says. Wow. Now the Capitol Port of Prince has effectively been under siege by gangs for the last two weeks. Is there any sign that the violence there is subsiding? We thought it was, but yesterday was a very violent day in the Capitol. Gang shot at the airport. Just as workers were trying to fix the damage that had been done during previous attacks. And local news reported that gangs had also looted the House of the Director of National Police and then set it on fire. One of the prisons, which was already empty from an earlier prison break, was also set on fire. And this is absolutely without a doubt a political statement from the armed gangs in the country. This renewed violence is happening while different political parties and affiliations are trying to shape this transitional council that was proposed by the international community. And some prominent gang leaders have come out against this agreement saying it doesn't represent the will of the Haitian people. And this violence seems to be the way they plan to oppose it. Now the US has finally appointed an ambassador to Haiti. What do we know about him? So it's Dennis Haskins and his nomination was approved by the Senate yesterday. And the important part is that this marks the first time the US has had an ambassador in Haiti for nearly two and a half years. That's NPR's Ada Peralta in Capacán. Thank you so much. Thank you, Leyla. Leaders in Chicago once promised to welcome migrants seeking asylum. Now they're reversing course. 37,000 asylum seekers have journeyed to the shores of Lake Michigan over the last two years. Along with several other cities in the US, Chicago says its shelters have reached capacity. So starting Saturday, the city will start evicting some migrants. Joining me now is NPR's immigration correspondent, Jasmine Garz. Good morning. Good morning. So, Jasmine, why is this starting now? We know last fall, New York City told migrants they could stay for 30 to 60 days at shelters. And around that time, Chicago kind of positioned itself as a more welcoming city. Here's Mayor Brandon Johnson at a press conference five months ago. The policies that are impacting populations shifts around the globe is affecting us all. These are asylum seekers. These are not illegal people. But this has already cost Chicago nearly $160 million. And the city says it can't handle it. So it enacted a similar policy to New York, a 60-day eviction rule. And that goes into effect Saturday, as many as 5,600 people could be told to leave. So quite a reversal there for this city. And it has to be a polarizing issue for people in Chicago. What's the response been like? Well, the decision has been divisive. Many in local governments say, despite its best intentions, months of sheltering people have worn Chicago's budget and patients thin. But there's a lot of opposition too. Alderman Andre Vasquez, chair of the city's committee on immigrant and refugee rights, says the city can do better. So not only is it not the right way to go when we're thinking about the dignity everybody deserves in the situation and we're talking about families with children in school, it also isn't being responsible at a taxpayer dollar because it's going to lead to more cost down the line. He predicts it will lead to increased homelessness, more visits to the ER and cost Chicago more. So you mentioned that New York City enacted a similar policy last year. Has that been working? New York officials say as of December of last year, over 22,000 people were told it was time to leave the shelter. And about a quarter were able to stay in the system. But City Hall doesn't know a lot about what happens to people when they leave the shelters. I've been talking to migrants who are now sleeping in parks, streets, under bridges. These people are allowed to stay in the country for now, but they can't work legally. I mean, you can stay, but you can't work to support yourself? That's exactly right. When a migrant seeks asylum, the law says they can't get a work permit until five months after applying for that asylum. And mayors have brought this up to the White House in Congress as something that could alleviate the financial stress of caring for people. Yeah, but we've seen even immigration proposals with bipartisan support seem to go nowhere in Washington. So is there any sign that conditions on the ground in these cities might change? Not really. This all started two years ago with the surge of migrants at the border. Text to Republican Governor Greg Abbott started busing migrants to cities like New York, Chicago, Denver. And Abbott has pledged to continue sending migrants north. He says as a way to get the Biden administration to ramp up border enforcement. So this is going to continue. And PR's immigration course for under Jasmine Garz. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for having me. And that's up first for Friday, March 15th. I'm Layla Faldon. And I'm Hay Martinez. Today's episode of Up First was edited by Nick Spicer, Tara Neal, Alfredo Carvajal, Lisa Thompson and Ben Adler. It was produced by Ziat Butch, Ben Abrams, and Lindsay Toddi. We get engineering support from Stacy Abbott and our technical director is.com. And don't forget up first airs on Saturday too. I use Shorasco and Simon have the news. It'll be here in this feed or wherever you get your podcasts. We'll see you back here again Monday with the news you need to start your week. Here and now anytime is a news podcast from NPR and WVR. That zigs went others zang. You've already heard the headlines so go deeper on the stories that affect you with people who know what's up. Explore your world, learn something new, and make the news make sense with here and now anytime available wherever you get your podcasts. Conversations about race and identity. Don't begin or end with the news cycle. That's because we know race and identity impact every person and influence every story. We're getting into all of it with new voices each week on the Coatswitch podcast from NPR. It's an election year and a long one at that. So you're going to hear a lot of spin from the campaigns and their surrogates. But here and now anytime is your source this election season for coverage that means something. Explore the issues, hear from voters, and find solutions on here and now anytime. A podcast from NPR and WVR.