 The state of Texas wants to arrest people they think are in the United States illegally. In a manner of hours, courts allowed that law to take effect and then blocked it. What happens now? I'm Steve Innscape with Michelle Martin and this is up first from NPR News. In Mississippi, two black men were tortured by police officers. What is known, I forgive that part, but I don't know. Steve, he's still dead because I have what he did and he has to be punished with. Evidence at this week's sentencing hearing shows how the officers covered this up. I know how Republicans picked the candidate endorsed by Donald Trump and the race that could determine control of the Senate. If Joe Biden enters Ohio, Sheridan Brown is going to fly out of here like a scared cat. Stay with us, we'll give you the news you need to start your day. The following message comes from NPR sponsor Sadfa. Founder and CEO Ron Rudson is on a mission to bring quality sleep to more people. Health and wellness are so tied to quality sleep. And I'm trying to tell everyone, look, you have to treat sleep like an activity. Because I believe sleep is the most important thing in your life. To learn more, go to swatva.com slash NPR. This message comes from NPR sponsor Cox with gig speeds everywhere. You have the power to stay connected with the speed you need on all your connected devices. Learn more at Cox.com. At Planet Money, we take you to the furthest reaches of the global economy. From the currency black markets of Buenos Aires to the Caribbean island where no one owns property, to the giant underground caves where the US government stored a national cheese supply. Cheese came. Listen to the Planet Money podcast from NPR. migrants in Texas are waking up this morning to a new day of anxiety after a whirlwind of court orders yesterday. Okay, this is all part of a legal battle over an immigration enforcement law that the state of Texas passed last year. So this is the state weighing in on immigration. The law empowers police in Texas to arrest people that they suspect are living in the United States illegally. And then allows local judges to order that migrants be deported to Mexico, regardless of what country they may be originally from. For several hours yesterday, the United States Supreme Court allowed this law to be enforced. And then a lower court hit the pause button again. Julian Aguilar from the Texas newsroom is here with us with the latest good morning. Julian, good morning. So would you just start by walking us through all the legal developments yesterday and the arguments from both sides? Sure. So the law known as SB4 was originally scheduled to take effect earlier this month. But the Biden administration and immigrant rights groups sued to block it. They argue that the measure is discriminatory and usurps the federal government's responsibility to enforce immigration law. Texas leaders, including Governor Greg Abbott, say the law is necessary because of President Biden's open border policies. They point to a record number of asylum seekers entering the US through Texas. The legal battle swiftly rose to the US Supreme Court. And yesterday, the high court allowed the law to take effect. The justices didn't take a position on the merit of the case, but instead deferred to an original decision by a three judge federal panel of the appeals court. And then late last night, a difference had of judges on the same appeals court voted two to one to keep that law blocked. And those judges will hear arguments today on whether it should be kept on hold as the case plays out. So at any moment, perhaps as soon as today, the appeals court could allow the law to be implemented. And if that happens, what do we know about how local police might enforce it? So local law enforcement officers say they will comply, but they have concerns about how the law will affect their day to day operations. Sheriff Oscar Carillo from Culverson County along the West Texas border says he supports the law, but he's also concerned about how much it could cost his rule border county and others like it. I think we're going to be very selective about the cases we pick up our jail is like capacity as we speak today. And to start incarcerating undocumented people and charging with Mr. Meade or crime is a discussion. I'll have to have with my county attorney. That's a common sentiment as officials have said they don't have a lot of guidance on how to implement the law. So so let's say for the sake of argument that the law does take effect. If that happens, talk about some of the legal issues that people living in Texas might face. Sure. So civil and immigrant rights organizations, they have a lot of concerns. Chief among them is that police will have blanket authority to question somebody about their immigration status because of the way they look. Alan Lee Zagata with the border network for human rights says he's concerned about the laws impact on people of color and mixed status families in Texas. We know that this law is going to increase racial profiling. We know that this law is going to strip people their constitutional rights. We know that this law is also going to lead to the mass realization of our communities. It's also been argued by opponents of the bill that a migrant with legitimate claims to asylum could have their case put in jeopardy because of this law as they could face state criminal charges. And what are officials in Mexico saying about all this? Yeah, there was a strong response from the Mexican government in the short time the law was an effect. The foreign ministry said in the statement Tuesday that it won't accept migrants that have been deported under the Texas law. It also said it will file a brief in opposition to SB4 that highlights the challenges the law presents to the relationship between the United States and Mexico. That's William Aguilar from the Texas Newsroom. William, thank you. Thank you. Six former Mississippi police officers who pleaded guilty to torturing two black men are being sentenced this week in federal court. This story, which lasts about four minutes, includes details of violence. The officers raided a home early last year. Officers shot one of the men inside, then planted drugs and a gun at the scene to cover it up. With us now is Mississippi public broadcasting's Michael McEwen, Michael, good morning. Good morning. So you were in the courtroom yesterday in Jackson for the sentencing hearing. Tell us what happened. Yeah, so two of the six former ranking county police officers began their sentencing yesterday. They were part of a group self-styled as the gun squad. And in January of 2023, they broke into a home where two black men lived, brutalized them for more than two hours, tortured them, sexually assaulted them, and then try to cover it up. Hunter L. Word, who was a deputy at the time of the raid, was sentenced to 20 years yesterday. He faced the most high-munder sentencing guidelines, mostly because he shot Michael Corey Jenkins in the mouth and a mock execution that went awry. He was visibly shaking and crying in court and apologized directly to both of his victims. Lieutenant Jeffrey Middleton's hearing went much differently. His attorney really pushed the judge to sentence him differently from L Word. He argued his client played less of a role in the raid itself and that he didn't shoot a gun. But Judge Tom Lee gave Middleton 17 and a half years, which was the highest allowed under his guidelines. Because he said as a lieutenant, Middleton could have stopped the raid, but instead participated. I understand that new details in the case came out during this hearing. Yeah, most interestingly, the power structure of the so-called Goon Squad really came to light. Federal prosecutors said it was Lieutenant Middleton who actually devised the plan to cover up the raid and the accidental shooting. He told his fellow officers that if they told anyone what happened, he'd have them killed. And he also planted a gun and met on the scene to justify it. There is also testimony, the pointy to current Ranky County Sheriff Brian Bailey. And it alleged that he knew about the Goon Squad and tolerated it for years. It's also worth noting here that Eddie Parker and Michael Corey Jenkins are black men. And not only were they brutalized, tortured, and sexually assaulted. But we're also called several racial slurs. And we're told by the all white officers that go quote, back to their side of the river in Jackson. And Ranky County most notably is a white suburban enclave just east of Jackson. I understand that the two victims were in court for all this. How did they how did they react to all this? So Eddie Parker says he still really struggles as a result of that night. He was sexually assaulted and he had his life threatened if he reported the attack to any authorities. And he says that he's still afraid to fall asleep or even go into public. But he did stand up in the courtroom and say that he forgave Hunter Elwood. Here he is speaking again after the hearing. What is done? I forgive that Parker. He's still he's still dead. You know what I'm saying? What he did and he has to be punished for it. Michael Corey Jenkins, who shot in the mouth and nearly killed, told me that he felt justice was beginning to be served, but that he didn't forgive Elwood because he wasn't sorry, but it's only sorry that he got caught. And before we let you go, what's next? So the other four officers, including the sheriff departments lead investigator will be sentenced to per day through tomorrow. And just from what I heard in court yesterday, I expect more details about how the Goon Squad operated to come out. That is Michael McEwan with Mississippi Public Broadcasting. Michael, thank you. Thank you. Democrats have faced a narrow path to holding their Senate majority this November. And it runs through Ohio. A state Donald Trump has won twice. A Senator Sherrod Brown is one of the few Democrats who have held Senate seats in red states. And now he knows his opponent for this fall in a primary Republicans endorsed Donald Trump's chosen candidate Cleveland businessman Bernie Merino. Karen Casler is statehouse news bureau chief for Ohio's public radio and TV stations. And she's with us now. Good morning. Hi, good morning. You know, from here at least this Senate primary race had seemed close in the polls. What gave Merino the edge? Simply put, it was Donald Trump. His airport rally on Saturday and date in for Merino was a big factor. A political action committee aligned with US Senate Democrats had bought $2.7 million in ads in the final week saying Merino is too conservative for Ohio. His rivals accused Democrats of meddling in the primary because they viewed Merino as the weakest candidate in the field. But those ads may actually have helped Merino who says he wears the Trump endorsement as a badge of honor. I wonder whether Sherrod Brown is going to wear with honor. His 99% voting record with Joe Biden. Whether Joe Biden is the kind of person that he likes to associate with because I would predict this. If Joe Biden enters Ohio, Sherrod Brown is going to fly out of here like a scared cat. Now, Brown has talked about positions where he has split from Biden, such as on immigration. But Brown comes into the race as a popular candidate who won Ohio after Trump did. And Brown has more money than all three of the Republicans who were running for the nomination had in total. So, could you just say more about how Trump's support influenced this race? Well, Merino was the Trump endorsed candidate. State Senator Matt Dolan had made it clear that he supported Trump's policies. He was not endorsed by Trump. He was the Ohio GOP establishment candidate backed by Governor Mike DeWine and former Senator Rob Portman. They had not been enthusiastic about Trump but had endorsed Trump in 2020. The third candidate in this race, Secretary of State Frank LaRose, had also worked really hard to get Trump's endorsement, but had fallen way behind in money to Merino and Dolan who were both wealthy. So now that the GOP candidate has been decided, well, the Democratic candidate too, but what can we expect next? We can expect the most expensive U.S. Senate race in Ohio history. Democrats started attacking Merino almost immediately after the race was called by about 835 last night. The Democratic Senateorial Campaign Committee put out a digital ad that featured criticisms of Merino by Dolan and LaRose, his opponents. The Ohio Democratic Party has been pushing a narrative that whoever emerged from this brutal campaign would do so with a lot of baggage. And they've attempted to draw attention to Merino's positions on immigration and on abortion. Meanwhile, Brown has a liberal voting record in the Senate, but has appealed to blue collar voters. He has strong support from unions. Democrats seem as a candidate who can appeal to moderate Ohioans in those frustrated with Trump, but Republican say Merino is uniting their base and the Ohio is firmly behind the form of President. That is State House News Bureau Chief Karen Casar. Karen, thank you. Great to talk to you. And that's up first for Wednesday March 20th. I'm Michelle Martin. And I'm Stephen's Keep. Today's up first was edited by Alfredo Carbohal, Susanna Capeludo, Padmorama, Alice Wolfley, and Ben Adler. It was produced by Ziat Budge, Ben Abrams, and Taylor Haney. We get engineering support from Stacey Abbott, who is so supportive and our technical director is Zach Coleman. Join us tomorrow. Your next listen is consider this from NPR, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says total victory over Hamas must happen before the war can end, but is total victory possible. Listen to consider this on the NPR app or wherever you get your podcasts. We all hear things differently, and that can be tough when there's so much noise. This election year, we're a space to speak up and to listen. Listen to one A for the latest on election 2024, only from NPR. On Bullseye, Peter Dinklage, Bird Whisperer. I started talking to the crows and befriending crows. I fed them every morning there at my door. I'll talk with the Game of Thrones star about his new movie with Shirley McLean, and because this is NPR, Birds. That's on Bullseye for MaximumFund.org and NPR.