 A critical test tonight for President Biden before a joint session of Congress has he sets up for his rematch with Donald Trump. What is the state of Biden's presidency on the morning of the state of the Union address? I mean, Martinez, that's Lila Faudel, and this is up first from NPR News. Alabama passes a law protecting in vitro fertilization clinics from civil and criminal liability weeks after the state Supreme Court gave frozen embryos the same rights as children, so we'll treat them and start up again. Israel's deadly military response in Gaza following a Hamas attack on Israel enters its six month. We take a look at the way it's changed Israeli society. On October 7th, something cracked or maybe broke into Israeli psyche. Stay with us. We've got the news you need to start your day. It's an election year and a long one at that. So you're going to hear a lot of spin from the campaigns and their surrogates. But here and now any time is your source this election season for coverage that means something. Explore the issues here from voters and find solutions on here and now any time, a podcast from NPR and WBUR. This message comes from NPR sponsor Cox with gig speeds everywhere. You have the power to stay connected with the speed you need on all your connected devices. Learn more at Cox.com. Some good stories come out of Washington, but most come out of communities like yours, far from the capital. Here and now any time is a podcast that taps into local newsrooms from Maine to San Diego to bring you stories that matter. Close to your community and find common ground with people around the world. On here and now any time from NPR and WBUR. It is among the most famous backdrops in American politics. The president speaking to a joint session of Congress. And tonight it'll feature Joe Biden. So you can reassure voters he is ready and able to serve a second term. Biden delivers the annual state of the Union address as America gets ready for a matchup they've seen before between Biden and former president Donald Trump. NPR senior White House correspondent Tamra Keith joins us now to talk about all this. Hi, Tam. Good morning. So what are you expecting to hear from the president tonight? President Biden is going to talk about what his administration has accomplished and what he still wants to get done. Topps on that list includes urging Republicans in the House to support aid to Ukraine. He's also going to tell Congress he needs funding to help secure the border. Our colleague Steven Skipe spoke with Biden's chief of staff, Jeff Zines, who says there will also be a discussion of the war in Gaza, which will include showing support for Israel and going into some depth about the suffering of Palestinian civilians. But much of the focus tonight will be domestic and forward-looking. This is what Zines told Steve. Lowering costs continue to make people's lives better by investing in childcare, elder care, paid family and medical leave, continued progress on student debt. But I think importantly, the president is also going to call for restoring Roe versus Wade. Now, Biden is going to be speaking to a room full of congressional Republicans who've been blocking him and nearly every turn for the past year and a half. Does the White House really think these proposals will become law? They're still holding out hope for Ukraine. Otherwise this is very much a second term agenda if Democrats are to control Congress. This is truly Biden's first speech of what is going to be a difficult 2024 general election fight. As of yesterday, former president Donald Trump is the presumptive Republican nominee. So even if he doesn't make it explicit, Biden is using this address to make his pitch to the American people for four more years. And this speech is likely going to be policy-heavy, but performance is almost more important. That's what Sarah DiPeri told me. She was a speech writer for former president Barack Obama. It is one thing to sort of say. I am the person who is fighting for you, but if you appear as though you don't have a lot of fight in you, that's not particularly compelling to people who want that. And so I think what he did so well last year was just come out swinging. And she's talking about the moment at last year's state of the union where Biden had this raucous back and forth with Republicans over social security. Heading into the speech last year, a lot of people, including Democrats, had many of the same questions we're hearing now about Biden's stamina and age. After that speech, a lot of those questions faded, at least for a while, but it's very much back in the forefront now. Can this one speech actually make a difference? This day the union certainly gets outsized attention. I was talking to voters earlier this week. And they told me people from both parties that they do have concerns about whether Biden has it in him for another four years. Republicans were openly questioning his mental competency. So will this one speech solve all that for the president? Probably not. But if he does have a chance to go off script and improvise, it might go a long way to reassure Democratic voters at least who are worried. And P.R. Tamerkeeth, thank you, Tim. You're welcome. In vitro fertilization providers in Alabama are expected to resume services as soon as today. And that is because Alabama Governor Kay Ivey signed a bill that was rushed into law after a controversial state Supreme Court ruling. It ends nearly three weeks in limbo for both IVF providers and the families they serve. And P.R. Debbie Elliott joins us from Montgomery, Alabama. Good morning, Debbie. Morning. So you were at the State House last night to watch the debate over this law. What is it intended to do? Well, it's intended to provide criminal and civil immunity for IVF providers and the families they served. They had been pushing for this after that ruling from the Alabama Supreme Court last month that basically gave frozen embryos the same rights as children. What this law does not do is address the whole question of whether stored embryos should get the same kind of protections that in utero fetuses do under Alabama's strict abortion ban. And the ramifications that that could then have for how doctors and families use their embryos. So what passed last night is basically a stopgap measure. It's intended to make IVF treatment available again. And the sense of urgency to get it done was underscored by the fact that the governor immediately signed it into law despite the late hour last night. So basically providers wanted to feel protected in doing these types of procedures. I mean, is this stopgap having the desired effect? What a provider saying they'll do? It appears to the biggest IVF provider in the state is the University of Alabama of Birmingham, a major medical center. It says it will resume treatments. Another provider, Alabama fertility operates in three cities. It says it welcomes the legislation and actually has patients scheduled to have embryo transfers today. Families who were undergoing IVF had been a constant presence at the state house pressing for this. I spoke last night with Karen O'Brien with the fight for Alabama Families Coalition. She's pregnant after having an embryo transfer in January and says these last few weeks have just been devastating for women who were left in a lurch now that they have scored this victory with the immunity law. They plan to use that momentum and push for a constitutional amendment to address the underlying question posed by the Supreme Court ruling. An embryo outside of the uterus is potential life and not an unborn child or unborn life. But that question still unsettled. A national industry group says the Alabama bill still leaves fertility doctors and their patients at risk. A statement from the American Society for Reproductive Medicine says the legislation is still a problem because there's still this sense that fertilized eggs are scientifically and legally equivalent to children. Is there any indication from Alabama lawmakers that they might try to address that broader issue raised by the Supreme Court ruling? Well everybody says they'd like to but honestly the path to get there is a bit murky. That's something that Republican Senator Tim Nelson acknowledges he's a physician from North Alabama and sponsored and fast-tracked this law. I think there's just too much difference of opinion on when actual life begins. A lot of people say conception. A lot of people say implantation. There's others that say heartbeat. I wish I had the answer. Nelson says the obstacle is making sure that the debate would be based on science and not gut feelings from politicians about when life begins. So certainly a very tricky issue. And Pierre is Deve Elliott. Thanks Deve. You're welcome. Today marks five months since October 7th and the surprise Hamas assault on Israel. Palestinian lives in Gaza are forever changed by Israel's deadly military response. Israeli lives have changed as well and the state of Israeli society is crucial to understanding where this war might lead. And Pierre's Daniel Estran has been reporting on this and joins us from Tel Aviv. Good morning Daniel. Good morning Leila. So October 7th we know was the deadliest day for Israel in its history. The Israeli military response has been the deadliest war Palestinians in Gaza have ever faced. How are Israelis feeling five months into this war? Israelis are living their lives unhold. 94,000 Israelis are still evacuated from their homes along the borders with Gaza and Lebanon. It's not just them. I met with an October 7th survivor of a door shortman. On October 7th something cracked or maybe broke into Israeli psyche. Even those that weren't there just saw it on TV. They are still there. Now he was actually there in one of the attacked communities his in-laws were killed and his family has only now moved from a hotel to a trailer park to house all these broken families. And a lot of these families he says will not move to new homes being built for them until the hostages are freed. There are more than 130 Israelis still held in Gaza many still believe to be alive. And so these families don't want the Israeli government to think that they're moving on until those hostages are released. And it's just a whole sense Leila that the entire country is in a state of suspended animation. State of suspended animation. Now there is a lot of alarm globally about the way Israel has conducted its response. But what do Israelis think? There is a consensus here that the war should continue until Hamas has no capability to threaten Israel. Israelis are largely unified now in support of the war. Together we will win is the slogan that you see everywhere. I mean, even displayed on highway signs along with the traffic reports. Many Israelis will tell you it's unfair of the world to expect them to show restraint in Gaza after the October 7 attack. And you also hear from Israelis who used to believe in some peace deal with Palestinians one day that they've lost all trust in that now. I spoke with an Israeli lawyer Adi Peshko Kuts. I believe we had before October 7th, we were just wrong. We were just naive. You know, a lot of Israelis are angry at the world for seeing Israel as the aggressor against Palestinians and not as a victim defending itself. Now, Daniel, you've been reporting on this war for months now. What changes have you seen among Israelis and in Israel? You see a lot of guns, Leila. I mean, one of the most profound changes is that many Israelis no longer believe they can depend on their army alone. They saw what happened October 7th civilians were under attack for an entire day before help arrived. And so 900 volunteer armed squads have been mobilized across Israel to patrol cities. Israel says Hamas has been greatly weakened by its military operation. What are Israelis most concerned about now? They're concerned about Lebanon. Hasbala in Lebanon is a much more formidable enemy than Hamas is. Hasbala has longer range missiles that could paralyze Israel and knock out the electricity grid. So Israeli families are buying generators just in case and many army reservists are being told to report for duty just in case there's war. And Pierre's Daniel Estran in Tel Aviv. Thank you, Daniel. You're welcome. And that's the first for Thursday, March 7th. I'm Leila Faldon. Enemy Martinez. As the first was edited by Roberta Rampton, Susanna Capeludo, Mark Katkov, Lisa Thompson, and Ben Adler. It was produced by Julie Depp and Brock Ben Abrams and Katie Klein. We get engineering support from Stacey Abbott and our technical director is Zach Coleman. As always, start your day here with us tomorrow as we break down President Biden's state of the Union to dress. And you can listen to this podcast sponsor free while financially supporting public media with up first plus. Learn more at plus dot NPR dot org that's PLUS dot NPR dot org. 2020. Is that you? Because this year's presidential race is feeling like deja vu. It's shaping up to be another Biden Trump showdown. On the its been a minute podcast, what this deja vu does for our feelings towards democracy. Listen to its been a minute from NPR. Hey there, this is Felix Contaneras, one of the co-hosts of Ollatino. The podcast from NPR Music where we discuss Latinx culture, music and heritage with the artists that created. Listen now to the Ollatino podcast from NPR. On the Coat Switch podcast, conversations about race don't start and stop with the new cycle. We know that race is always relevant and we have new topics, new voices and new stories for you every single week. Listen to the Coat Switch podcast from NPR.