 Today, Senator Shuma calls for Netanyahu to go as the U.S. ways a red line in Rafa. Hisbola tries to shield Iran from a regional war. Why Russians are finding a new home in Latin America? It's Friday, March 15th. This is Royce's World News, bringing you everything you need to know from the frontlines in 10 minutes every weekday. I'm Kim Van Al in London. Money by doing it right from your phone. Drivers who save by switching to progressive save nearly $750 on average and auto customers qualify for an average of 7 discounts. Discounts for having multiple vehicles on your policy, being a homeowner and more. So just like your favorite podcast, Progressive will be with you 24-7 365 days a year, so you're protected no matter what. Multitask right now. Quote your car insurance at progressive.com to join the over 28 million drivers who trust progressive. Accountability insurance company in affiliate's national average 12 month savings of $744 dollars by new customer surveyed who saved with progressive between June 2022 and May 2023. Potential savings will vary, discounts not available in all states and situations. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, a long time supporter of Israel and the highest ranking Jewish elected official in the U.S., calling for new elections in Israel. The Democrat criticizing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as an obstacle to peace. It has become clear to me, Netanyahu coalition no longer fits the needs of Israel after October 7. Netanyahu's LeCoud party swiftly rejected Schumer's proposal, but his speech reflects the growing frustration in Washington with Netanyahu. Now, if Prime Minister Netanyahu's current coalition remains in power after the war begins to wind down and continues to pursue dangerous and inflammatory policies that test existing U.S. standards for assistance, then the United States will have no choice but to play a more active role in shaping Israeli policy by using our leverage to change the present course. Netanyahu's vow to push into the southern city of Rafa has only increased tensions with Washington. This vitalnet covers U.S. foreign policy in Washington, DC. So Matt, we just heard Senate Assumé talk about leverage. If Israeli forces push in to Rafa, how might the U.S. respond? Well, first and most importantly, President Biden and his aides have very starkly warned Israel against invading Rafa, which is sheltering more than half of Gaza's population at this point, unless they come up with a plan for protecting civilians and keeping the flow of aid going in some fashion. So the U.S. does have some leverage if they want to use it up to this point. Biden has resisted using one of the main pressure point, the main pressure point in fact, which is the U.S. supply of weapons to Israel, which relies your heavily on U.S. equipment. He has been very reluctant to do that. Another would be diplomatically the U.S. provides Israel with a shield at the United Nations against security council resolutions using its veto often or discouraging others from going ahead with different resolutions that are anti-Israel. And the U.S. could decide under certain circumstances that it might allow something to go through. That too, it has carries great risks for the administration. While Israel warns of a military push into southern Gaza, the danger of an all-out conflict along Israel's northern border has regional players concerned. And as Hezbollah found its backers Iran planned for a possible all-out Israeli offensive in southern Lebanon, Hezbollah is telling Iran that it can fight this alone. The message came from Hezbollah's leader, Sayyid Hassan Nasrallah, during a previously unreported meeting with the head of Iran's Al-Quds Force. Samia Nakul is brought to global foreign policy editor. Samia, why is Hezbollah saying this? Because they feel that Iran is going to be under attack if it helps Hamas or if it unleashes its proxies to attack you as interests and Israeli interests. You know, there is a kind of escalation going on, but everybody is saying to prevent an all-out war in the region. It will be a huge regional war if it starts. It gets Hamas. Iran is already fighting there. It gets Hezbollah's attack and it gets Iraqimidisha. It gets United States and of course Iran. So actually Hezbollah is starting to take the blunt and to shield Iran in a way from an attack. What does this tell us about the strain Iran is under? Iran is coming under enormous pressure from all sides. You have the Saudi-Israel agreement that is under works. Then you have the US defense pact between Saudi Arabia and the United States, which is a kind of NATO-like agreement. So you have a new, the alignment, you have new dynamics that apply. Plus Iran fears that if the proxies carry an escalation and all-out confrontation, this time Israel might attack its nuclear program. And this is something that they really have concerned about because it will set their program back in time. So they want to take a backseat at this stage and to avoid a white-scale confrontation or a full out-war. Hamas has put forward a ceasefire plan to mediateers and the US. It includes a first-stage release of Israeli hostages in exchange for up to 1,000 Palestinian prisoners, according to the proposal seen by Reuters. Israel said the offer was based on, quote, unrealistic demands. Meanwhile, Gaza's health ministry says at least 29 Palestinians were killed waiting for aid in two separate Israeli strikes. Israel's military denies attacking aid centers, describing the reports as false. Kamala Harris touring a Minnesota abortion clinic in Anne historic first. It was thought to be the first such visit made by a president or vice president and is part of the administration's efforts to put reproductive rights front and center ahead of November's election. SpaceX's Starship rocket made its third test flight, a flight which took it further than it's ever been before. But it disintegrated on reentry into the Earth's atmosphere. Hot-of-the-nexpected US inflation data has markets around the world sinking, as investors adjust to the prospect of later and fewer fed rate cuts. Big shares are driving the biggest losses in Hong Kong and South Korea and European markets are trading flat. Bitcoin has pulled back from all-time highs too. Vladimir Putin is certain to win in Russia's presidential elections this weekend. And across Latin America, a small but growing community of Russian transplants will likely be watching the results closely. Once the invasion into Ukraine, more and more Russians have been putting down roots in central and south America. The Sinder Elliott takes us to Buenos Aires, where one couple is hoping to introduce a little bit of Russian culture to Argentina. Ilya Nadia Gafferov, a couple from the port city of Vladivostok, they come from the very far eastern corner of Russia, a port city near the border with China and North Korea, and they have arrived about nine months ago to the city of Buenos Aires, where they're planning to open a Russian style sauna or banya. And there are others who have opened bars and cafes and beauty salons, and there's a really kind of thriving community. And what we found is that not only are they coming, but they're coming to stay. The quality data from Argentina shows that nearly 4,000 Russians were issued residency in 2023. That's up tenfold since 2019 before the pandemic disrupted international travel. And the migrants came to me from Russia. So Ilya told me that he felt that the Russian community had grown quite substantially since they arrived, and that more and more people were on their way. What I found from speaking to many different exiles is that the economic situation in Russia was a big driver, but also that changes to Russia's conscription system last year has made it harder to avoid being called up for military service. Why are Russian immigrants choosing places like Argentina, Brazil, or Mexico to find in New Home? Generally Russian sea, Latin American societies is fairly liberal, diverse, and democratic. Then you have the ease of coming here and applying for residency. Most countries you can come in for 90 days without a visa, and after a few years then you can fly for a passport, and these passports are much more attractive at the moment than a Russian document. You can read Lucinda's full story on Reuters.com or on the Reuters app this weekend. And for live coverage of the Russian election, Reuters.com will have a dedicated live page on Sunday. That's it for today's episode. Make sure you tune in on Saturday for a deep dive into Northern Ireland. As St. Patrick's Day celebrations get underway, we speak to young musicians there about what they want for the future. And we'll be back on Monday with our daily headline show. If you want to stay ahead on the big news from around the world, listen in for 10 minutes every week day. And don't forget to subscribe on your favourite podcast player or download the Reuters app.