 Starting route to Belfast City Hall. Head south west on Sanford Avenue, then turn left onto Donor Avenue. For those of you who know me from our weekly headline show, I'm Carmel Cremens and I live in Dublin. On a sunny afternoon, just ahead of St Patrick's Day, I'm driving up to Belfast in Northern Ireland. In the two-hour drive that separates the two cities, I see beautiful hills and the yellow flowers of the gorse shrubs that grow on the side of the road. What I don't see is a physical border. The only way you'd know you're actually in the United Kingdom are the road signs that switch from kilometers to miles. It's a symbol of the huge changes that have happened on this island and the conversations that are happening now about its future. And how for a new generation, Irish unity could become a long-term reality for those under British rule, but masks the tribalism that endures. In this special episode, I go beyond politics to try and understand what a new generation of voters in Northern Ireland wants. There's demographic trends, a bad face is on age-old sectarianism, and of course, the contrasting economic fortunes in two places split for more than 100 years. And then, because this is Ireland, there's music. I'm Carmel Kremens in Belfast. Belfast is a UNESCO city of music, and music is so important to Northern Ireland. Flute and pipe bands are defining part of the Protestant identity here, and the Fiddler and the Barrow will feature heavily in St Patrick's Day festivals north and sets of the border. So I started off by visiting a pipe band in the small village of Doge, about 10 miles north of Belfast. This is the major Sinclair Memorial pipe band. It's got over 40 Pipers and Drummers, and every week, some are all of them gather in a small village hall to practice. You're talking all ages, from kids right up to grandparents. The band prides itself on being cross-community, and will be marching in the St Patrick's Day parade in Belfast. Here's Glenn Baxter. He's a 24-year-old electrician, and one of the band's two pipe majors. The pipes will play along, you know, with myself, I went on the third of Belgium, you know, with the group from north on south, and we play along with the Boron, you know, playing Jackson Raiders. It is so common together, you know. Music is music, and you know, I think the politics is common and it. Honestly, I'd never heard anything like the sound of those pipes and drums. It was so powerful, so unbelievably loud, so I had to relocate my interviews outdoors, in the dark and the cold, which no one else seemed to mind. Except me, I was freezing. First up was Johnny Cousins. He's 24 years old and works as a cognitive behavioral therapist. And he's also an all-arlin solo, tenor drumming champion, twice over. Not bad for a guy who only took up drumming on his university gap year. So essentially, I burn myself on like a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday night, I haven't very much to do. Johnny twirled his drumsticks throughout our discussion, which reigned from music and religion to politics. And in particular, the ambition of Sinn Fein, the former political wing of guerrilla group, the Irish Republican Army, to unite Northern Ireland with the south. It was very difficult for a lot of unionists to kind of get on board with the principle of the United Ireland, which is being proposed by a party that for a lot of unionists is associated with a terrorist group. And so a lot of unionists will, a full-do unionists especially, will immediately be like, we're never going to vote for that. A lot of my generation of unionists from Protestant or else the Scots will say no because there's no plan, there's no idea of how we would integrate in terms of finances, in terms of NHS, or anything like that. And so without that plan in place, you would essentially be be voting for an idea rather than an actual concrete plan. Johnny spoke about the need to protect the Ulster Scots identity of a lot of pro-union voters. His bandmate, Hannah Thompson, agreed. She's a PhD student in environmental science and a veteran pipe role ready at the age of 23. She described herself as coming from a unionist Protestant background, but identity can be complicated, like the time she traveled to Romania with a pipe band from County Dunning Hall. When you're in the grass somewhere, that's not home. I didn't really have an issue, been called Irish. It was all the time that you're the Irish pipe person, yeah? And how would you describe yourself here when you're home? Oh, I'm Northern Irish. I don't ask for my identity, I'd always go Northern Irish. And then, British is a second. Like Johnny, she could foresee a border pole being held in the future. And economics and identity would play a big role in deciding how to vote. I think it's difficult to not vote for, you know, what she identifies as. I would also look at the pros and cons of an over-situation at the time. I wouldn't, I would look at it with a sensible head, if it would be smarter to stay believe I would consider pros and cons. Yeah. But again, you'd have to kind of separate yourself in a way of your identity, but again, it would be difficult to kind of remove yourself and think, you know, this side, I don't buy. I see myself, you know, in the future, in a place where I don't really identify being from. Yeah. I don't know what would be difficult. Sinn Fein leader Mary Lume McDonald says the United Ireland is within touching distance. There's a conversation underway about what happens next 25 years. 26 years almost on from the Good Friday. The agreement what does Ireland look like in five years time, in ten years time, in a generation's time. The days of partition are numbered. It doesn't work. But is that really the case? To find out, I spoke to our Belfast correspondent Amanda Ferguson. She's been covering the twists and turns of what goes on in Northern Ireland for 15 years. We met in the grand setting of Belfast City Hall, where they were setting up for an event to mark International Women's Day. The Good Friday agreement is clear that for now, Northern Ireland is a part of the United Kingdom, but it is a conditional part of the United Kingdom. So the only way that that would change would be if people vote for it in a border pool. Now, it would be up to the UK government secretary of state for Northern Ireland to call a border pool. He could do that in any circumstances, but the most likely one is if he is of the view that the majority of people would want to vote for a United Ireland. And then the pool would be called up to this point the UK government has resisted outlining the conditions that would need to be met for a border pool to be called. So politicians everywhere feast on surveys and polls. But here, it must be, you know, it's existential. What we have seen is to be very sort of blunt about it, and it's not precise. We're kind of dividing along 40, 40, 20 lines. So 40% of the population, roughly, it's from a British Unionist tradition. 40% is roughly what will be described as an Irish Republican or nationalist background. And then the other 20 is made up of what are known as the others. Now, the others as they're described would vote for parties like the Alliance Party and the Green Party who don't take a fixed constitutional position. But within the support base for both of those parties, you will have people who are British Unionists and Irish Republicans, people who could be persuaded either way whenever it comes to a referendum, whenever it comes to border pool day. Some people who don't really care about it at all, that it doesn't exercise them. It's not something that motivates them. And that is the cohort that everybody will be trying to court whenever it comes to a border pool because everybody has kind of knows what they want. Whereas that group is a little bit ambiguous, so they'll be extremely important on the decision day, I guess. Is it a basic question of demographics or is it not as simple as that? When you look at a different chart that showed you who is most in favor of Irish unity, the over 65s are less in favor of it and the young voters here at 10 are very keen on that idea. So we know what happens to people as they age, they vanish from statistics and those young people who have become voters. So it depends, I guess, you can't just assume because someone's from a particular background that they're going to vote a certain way because they want to know what's happening with the health service, some of the education and infrastructure, and how it would make a difference to pensions. And a whole range of different issues. Amanda's right, you can't assume from someone's background the way they're going to vote. On a Wednesday evening in the Crown and Shamrock pub north of Belfast, you'll often find traditional Irish musicians having a session. Pines of Guinness on the table, eyes closed as they concentrate on the tunes. There's a nice cozy vibe and a sign which I'm taking to be tongue in cheek, warning against discussions of politics and religion. I take the plunge anyway. Owen Nugent is an 18 year old student at Queen's University studying philosophy, politics and economics. He plays the fiddle, considers himself Irish, and would like a united Ireland in what he describes as the not too distant future. I agree. I'd certainly vote. Yes, that's just the way I'm inclined to understand a lot of people would be on the fence and that sort of thing. And maybe just they they're not too sure as to what they'd see as to what to expect. So in that sense, it's just more comfortable for some people to vote for the status quo. I suppose broader nationalism has to ask itself is what do you do to then make the south more appealing than in the sorts of like social services and institutions? They'd have to be more appealing to persuade Michael Lawrenceson. He's a 32 year old geography teacher and not interested in identity politics. But if someone wants to say to you, well what's your nationality? I just kind of go whatever, you know, I'm one of those people and nice and nice is not a quite socialist. Yes. He's more interested in the quality of life. And it's that rather than the flag or the national anthem that will be a deciding factor in any future referendum. I think it's an interesting one because I couldn't say yes for no reason because it's a ridiculous question. What does the United States look like? Is it a national house? It's a national house. I can't speak house service. Is it public sector, mass investment, public sector? It's intel going to pay more tax than so if there's Google going to pay tax. If there's not, why would I be interested in my livelihood? My quality of life isn't going to improve. But I would like social change. If I put that both in the Republic of Ireland or Northern UK, there needs to be massive investment, public sector, in renewables, nationalizing energy, all this health service public, you know, all that stuff is way more important than what country I come from. Michael Lawrenceson is the type of voter that Amanda describes as the 20%. So how are local politicians thinking about a referendum? I'm in the town of Balamina, famous for being the birthplace of Hollywood actor Liam Neeson. Ian Paisley Jr. is a Democratic Unionist party MP there. His late father, Ian Paisley Sr. was a firebrand Protestant preacher and hardline ulster unionist. Paisley Sr. was so opposed to closer ties to the Irish Republic that he was known as Dr. No. But he later said yes to sharing power with his once mortal enemies. Large pictures of Paisley Sr. lined the walls in his son's constituency office. I started off by asking him if he thought there'd be a referendum on Irish unity. I think the border, the issue of the border has always been on the horizon since Northern Ireland, was created as a state. The issues will have actually ever taken place. I have in the few the fact that nationalism and republicanism, which is supposed to be driving the issue of the border, keep kicking it off for 10 years every time, suggests to me that they know it's never actually a political change. See, you don't think there will be a border fall? No, do not. And even if there is, I still think that all of the stats show that ultimately Northern Ireland is better placed to remain within the United Kingdom, because much more stable within the United Kingdom. I also think there's a huge psychological problem, actually, just here and it's... Look, the problem of Northern Ireland is that you've got people who are divided, people of Northern Ireland are one unit. Yes, they're Catholic and Protestant and I don't know either, or non-religiously don't they? They're unisoned, non-sense, or unisoned republican and they're outlook, but they are a people and they are divided. The idea that you have a border Poland, move those people from one jurisdiction into a jurisdiction called all Ireland, doesn't solve the fact that the people are still divided. It's healing the divisions within the people of Northern Ireland that I'm more interested in than actually focusing on what they should be part of the United Kingdom and should be part of the Irish Republic. That actually doesn't affect the problem. And the problem is that people need to heal that division. I've been hearing a lot about the other, you know, the grouping of people in the voters who aren't identifying one way or the other. Are you actively reaching out to the other? I hope that the status quo pays as much to them as a force to, unions who are big unionists and probably those to a large degree. I also, I'm not saying I'm skeptical about this other community called the other, because you're scouts of service in Northern Ireland of everyone on their tribal. And anyone who says here, I'm above that, really, I'm really above that, you know, come on. You scouts of service, everyone is in some way a tribal. And I'm not saying that they're sectarian on that. I'm just saying that's just the nature of the nation, the country that we've grown up on. And even families that are mixed and integrated and all the rest of the stories is tribal view within them. John Fannouken, a member of Parliament for Belfast North, disagrees. Like all Shinfhen politicians, he refuses to sit or vote in the Westminster Parliament. His father, Pat Fannouken, was a human rights lawyer who was shot dead in front of his family in 1989 by pro-British militants. A picture of Pat Fannouken hangs in the corner of his son's law firm in Belfast City Centre. I start off with the most obvious question. So for Shinfhen for yourselves, when would you like to hold a border pole? Well, I think that we are in what we have described as a decade of opportunity. I think it's inevitable that a border pole will be put before the people of Ireland, North and South. This is not about me saying that I want a border pole tomorrow morning. I want a border pole exactly this time next year. That would be reckless. Brexit is the blueprint as to how you not to do these things. So for somebody who advocates for constitutional change, I will extend that by saying I advocate for constitutional change in an orderly, in a mature and an informed fashion. And that's why there needs to be a recognition, particularly from an Irish government, that we need to join this debate in a way that only a sovereign government can't. The opinion polling without any real interaction and engagement from an Irish government, I think, is very healthy. I think once this debate is resourced even more, then we will see that momentum continue. There is that other, the group, the other that I've been hearing a lot about. I find that for people who at the very least want to be part of the conversation and haven't made their mind up yet, I find that I find that I tend to drift more towards health, it drift towards the economy, it drift towards my pensions. What is this new art and look like for my children and my grandchildren? So I think there is a rule for everybody in this conversation on this. So political parties, civic society, academia, different sectors within society, and by and large, all of those different people in areas are stepping up and playing the role. No one person or party, particularly Sinn Fein, owns this conversation. This is a conversation that belongs to everybody, and that's important to say. But there comes a point where only a government has the ability to bring it to the next stage. And we are at that point now where it needs brought to the next stage. So the Irish government have a huge obligation and responsibility in that regard, but also so do the British government. So what is Dublin doing? Do the people and the politicians want to unite with the North? Porik Halpin has been running Reuters coverage of Ireland for the last 10 years and knows his way well around the political corridors of power. The main government parties here both aspire to United Ireland, Ireland's Prime Minister, who's 45, says he thinks that will happen in his lifetime. But equally, they've been pretty consistent that they don't see it in the near term. And that's that's cited as the main reason why, main reason why they are looking to do any, any sort of planning. I think they also see it as a device of politically at the moment when things are just getting back under feet in Northern Ireland regarding politics there. So we're expecting a general election in Ireland sometime in the next 12 months. If Sinn Fein gets into government, how might that change an Irish government's approach to possible unification? Yes, it could change quite a lot. Sinn Fein's reason for being is, I noted Ireland, they're the clear favorites to lead the next government when election happens in the next 12 months. They want planning to begin an earnest. They wanted via parliamentary committees. They want a citizens assembly to discuss those kind of more difficult issues like a flag and a national anthem. Issues that Sinn Fein themselves haven't really, haven't really just discussed in any great way. And now if they're leading the next government, it will be part of a coalition, but the dynamic would certainly change. I think that kind of planning would be the price of Sinn Fein leading that government. So if the polls are correct and Sinn Fein commit on top of the next election kind of form of government, that dynamic is going to change. How do people in the Republic feel about a potential border poll? So the survey say they're in favor of us and in favor in pretty big numbers. It was a comprehensive poll before Christmas that showed 64% in favor just 16% against the United Ireland. The rest are in the unknown camp. Interestingly, that survey looked and asked questions around flagged, around a new anthem, around possible changes to the Irish constitution. And voters were much more, were split much more evenly on those issues. I think that goes to show that they're not those kind of issues aren't really been discussed. They're not on people's radar. So I think while there's a big majority in favor, I think people haven't really thought about it beyond that surface idea. Speaking to people in Northern Ireland, they are worried about the financial ramifications if there was to be unification. Can the Republic afford it? The headline level Britain subsidises Northern Ireland to the tune of 14 billion pounds each year for that very public service focused economy. While Ireland is one of the few European countries running a budget service at the moment and quite a significant one of that, we was about half the level last year that the UK subsidises Northern Ireland. But Ireland is in a much, much better position to consider this question. Those healthy public finances, Dublin is hoping to turn into a sovereign wealth fund that could reach 100 billion euros within a decade. That's driven by these huge amounts of corporate tax from the multi national focus economy down in Dublin. So on that headline level, Ireland potentially could be in a position to consider it. But back to the point of no planning happening, those discussions on what would happen or how what the health service would look like. I will be funded those questions around pensions, those kind of things just like having been discussed at all. So you can only really look at things on a headline level, I guess. What's the British government's position on all of this? So the UK's Northern Ireland minister said recently that he doesn't see a referendum happening in his lifetime. And with polls consistently showing that a fairly clear majority of people in Northern Ireland would vote for the status quo if a poll was held tomorrow. London can simply say and they do that the conditions for holding a referendum are nowhere near being met. Interestingly, the Labour leader, Kirsta Armer, said something very similar before the Labour Party conference last year. And he described it as a hypothetical situation. And again, that the conditions aren't near being met. So I think until you see opinion polls that are much closer or certainly some going the other way, that will continue to be London's position, I think. A big thank you to all the musicians from the major Sinclair Memorial Pipeline and the Glen Gormley School. Play it loud on Sunday. Thanks also to John Fannouken, Ian Paisley Jr., Brendan O'Leary, Brian Walker, Amanda Ferguson and Porek Halpen. And whatever you're doing this weekend, St Patrick's Day or not, I hope you have a good one. Reuters World News is produced by Jonah Green, Gail Issa, David Spencer, Chris Walgesfer and myself, Carmel Cremons. Our regular host is Kim Vannell, executive producer, Lila Decretza. Sound Design, Engineering and Music Composition by Josh Summer. We'll be back on Monday with our daily headline show. Listen in every weekday for everything you need to know about your world in ten minutes. If you haven't already, subscribe, rate and review on your favourite podcast player. If you like what you hear, we'd love it if you share this episode with a friend. You can also hear us every day when you download the Reuters app.