 Today, the US puts pressure on Israel with a UN-Draft Resolution. The European Union pushes ahead with a plan to buy Ukraine weapons using Russian money. After months of chaos, Senegal heads to the polls. And Kentucky's loss to Oakland crushes millions of March madness brackets. It's Friday, March 22nd. This is Reuters World News. Bringing you everything you need to know from the front lines in 10 minutes every week day. I'm Kim Vannell in London. And I'm Carmel Kremens in Dublin. This episode is brought to you by Progressive Insurance. Most of you listening right now are probably multitasking. Yet, while you're listening to me talk, you're probably also driving, cleaning, exercising, or maybe even grocery shopping. But if you're not in some kind of moving vehicle, there's something else you can be doing right now. Auto quote from Progressive Insurance. It's easy, and you could save money by doing it right from your phone. Drivers who save by switching to Progressive save nearly $750 on average. And auto customers qualify for an average of seven discounts. Discounts for having multiple vehicles on your policy, being a homeowner, and more. So just like your favorite podcast, Progressive will be with you 24-7 365 days a year, so you're protected no matter what. Multitask right now. Support your car insurance at Progressive.com to join the over 28 million drivers who trust Progressive. Progressive casualty insurance company in Affiliate's National Average 12 Month savings of $744 by new customer surveyed who saved with Progressive between June 2022 and May 2023. Potential savings will vary, discounts not available in all states and situations. The US continues to up the diplomatic ante with its ally Israel to stop the war. Washington is now planning to put forward a resolution to the UN Security Council that calls for an immediate truce in Gaza. Speaking in Cairo, Secretary of State Antony Blinken presses the case for a halt in the fighting. The need for an immediate, sustained ceasefire with the release of hostages. That would create space to surge more humanitarian assistance to relieve the suffering of many people and to build something more enduring. It's a significant departure to Washington's traditional stance of shielding Israel at the UN and comes as condemnation of Israel's attacks on Gaza grow inside and outside the country. And Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu makes outreach to Republicans for support. As the US moves in on the UN, Blinken is in the Middle East hoping to broker a ceasefire with the help of Qatar and Egypt. Foreign policy reporter Humeir Apamuk is traveling with Blinken. Humeirah, how is Blinken hoping to change Netanyahu's mind? He's a veteran diplomat. He's not the kind of diplomat who uses strong rhetoric, warnings or threats. So far, his diplomacy has focused on calm conversation, frequent visits, giving a lot of face time to his Israeli counterparts. And look at the progress that's been made. A lot of analysts, critics, a lot of people around the world believe US is not making enough impact with Israel. US is not using its real leverage with Israel, which is the $3.8 billion of military aid. Biden, there has been a lot of reporting that Biden administration is now considering using that after the failure of basically convincing Israel to behave in a way that it wants. But we can say that Blinken's mission is pretty tough. Apple has employed a strategy that relies on exclusionary, anti-competitive conduct that hurts both consumers and developers. The Attorney General, Merrick Garland, announcing a landmark lawsuit against Apple. The Department of Justice accuses the iPhone maker of monopolizing the smartphone market, hurting rivals and driving up prices. Apple denies the allegations. Violence is flaring in Haiti's capital as political groups move closer to agreeing a transition council to take over the running of the country. Police shot dead a prominent gang leader, Ernst Hume, known as T. Grig, marking a setback for gang moves to take over more of the city. Supporters of a key Indian opposition leader protest his arrest over alleged corruption. Irvin Courgiwal, the Delhi Chief Minister and one of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's fiercest critics, was taken into custody following a raid on his home. His allies say the move is politically motivated, just weeks ahead of a general election. Surgeons in Boston have transplanted a kidney from a genetically engineered pig into a 62-year-old man in the first procedure of its kind. If successful, the animal to human transplant offers hope to hundreds of thousands of Americans whose kidneys have failed. So far, the signs are promising. Here's Dr. Tatsu or Kawai. When we saw the first urine output, everyone in operating them burst in applause. It was truly the most beautiful kidney I have ever seen. Add a big shock to kick off March madness, with 14th-seeded Oakland beating 3rd-seeded Kentucky in the first round. The Golden Grizzlies will play the winner of the Texas Tech vs North Carolina State for a birth in the sweet 16th. So, it turns out investors still have a big appetite for lost-making companies with potential. Reddit chairs soared in their market debut, ending the day up 48%. That's great news for Wall Street. This IPO was seen as a test of investor sentiment, and investors clearly liked what they saw with Reddit. The social media platform positioned its content as a training ground for AI programs. And we all know, AI is the flavor of the year. The European Union wants to make Russia pay for weapons for Ukraine. The block is looking at using interest earned on Russian assets, frozen since the start of the war. Here's Charles Michel, president of the European Council of EU Leaders. We are determined to act very quickly, so that we can take a part of this money to support Ukraine, including this possibility with military equipment. Andrew Gray is in Brussels. The idea is to take the profits from those assets and use them to help Ukraine. So the European Union would sense take these profits and channel them into a couple of different funds. The main one is one that's been used to help finance weapons for Ukraine. The president of the European Commission has said the first 1 billion euros could be dispersed as soon as July. But is everyone in favor of this plan? There are some countries, some that are militarily neutral or non-aligned, the likes of Austria, Ireland, Malta, Cyprus. This poses some questions for them. The original idea had been to use this money for Ukraine reconstruction, which would have been less controversial. So we'll have to see if they will come on board. How much money would this raise for Ukraine? The European Commission reckons this could yield about 3 billion euros annually. Possibly also tax that the Belgians take from Euroclear, the securities depository. And that could add potentially another 1.5 billion a year according to officials. So it's a substantial sum. It's not perhaps a game-changing sum when you look at the US package, the aid package of 60 billion stuck in Congress. But officials think it would make some difference to Ukraine and they're keen to go ahead and use it. In Senegal's capital, Dhaka, families of freed prisoners gather for a long-awaited get-together. Among them, kindergarten teacher, Aramata Dijiba. She spent six months in a cell with a single toilet, shared with 40 other women. On charges, she says we're politically motivated. Aramata is one of hundreds of prisoners recently granted amnesty, mostly protesters and opposition members. The release comes ahead of tense presidential elections this weekend, made more divisive after outgoing President Mackie Sal delayed the poll. Normally, one of West Africa's most stable democracies, Senegal has faced some of its most deadly unrest and history over the past three years. Bhate Felix is our West Africa bureau chief in Dhaka. Bhate, there aren't 19 candidates on the presidential ballot. Who are you watching to come out on top? Top on that list is obviously the candidate of the ruling coalition, former Prime Minister Madhuban. He has the experience, he's backed by the coalition party machinery. The other candidate that we are keeping an eye on is a young, relatively unknown format tax inspector called Basiryu Diumai-Fai. He came in just purely by default. He supported by Usman-Sonku. Some questions say, main candidate or was seen as a main candidate until legal troubles led him into detention and he was disqualified. So he had to find a replacement and this replacement turned out to be Diumai-Fai, who was also in detention. Both of them were released last Thursday and we've seen a huge momentum behind Diumai-Fai, mostly because of the popularity around Sonku. What are some of the big issues for voters? The key thing is the economic situation. Yes, Senegal has seen strong growth on the Mackie Sal. It's been huge investments in infrastructure. It's been fantastic, but it hasn't trickled down to the common people and on one end you can find people driving around with the latest SUVs, the Maybacks and so on. But right around the corner you have dozens of young men trying to echo living, hooking all kinds of way and not making up to a dollar a day and that is a reality. That is it for Friday. I hope you get to take a load off this weekend. Here on Reuters World News, we are always looking ahead. And with Donald Trump facing a Monday deadline to post a bond for his $454 million civil judgment, we thought we'd take a look at how the GOP has transformed over the past 10 years, tuning for that special episode on Saturday and we'll be back on Monday with our daily headline show. If you want to stay ahead on the big news from around the world, listen in for 10 minutes every week day. And don't forget to subscribe on your favorite podcast player or download the Reuters app.