 Today, Biden and Netanyahu on a collision course over a UN Gaza vote. Trump's historic trial date is set, but his bond payment reduced. The group behind the Moscow attack and their shadowy leader. And Boeing shakes up its leadership as it battles safety concerns. It's Tuesday, March 26. This is Royce's World News, bringing you everything you need to know from the front lines in 10 minutes. Every weekday. I'm Kim Vannell in London. This episode is brought to you by Uipath. Today, 90% of the Fortune 500 are accelerating human achievements simply, with Uipath. The world's number one AI-powered business automation platform. Uipath, the foundation of innovation. A major rescue operation in Baltimore after the France's Scott Key Bridge collapsed when a container ship struck it. The fire department's describing it as a mass casualty incident, with a number of people and vehicles in the water. The moment the ship struck a column of the bridge was caught on camera, you can see a giant section dropping into the Put Up Score River. It happened at 130 in the morning, local time. The bridge is more than a mile and a half long. Synergy Marine Group confirmed its Singapore flagged container ship, Dali, collided with a pillar of the bridge. You can get more on this story at Royces.com. It was reported that the U.N. Security Council, as a resolution demanding an immediate ceasefire in Gaza, was adopted. A U.S. abstention meant it could pass, unlike previously when the U.S. had vetoed. Palestinian U.N. Ambassador Riyad Mansor. This must be a turning point. This must lead to saving lives on the ground. The fallout for U.S. Israel relations because of the vote was swift. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has cancelled a high-level diplomatic visit to DC. Michelle Nichols was at the U.N. in New York for the vote. Michelle, what does the U.S. shift tell us? The U.S. would tell you that there is no change to their policy, and they consider Israel's reaction to their abstention as a bit of an overreaction. So very quickly after the U.S. abstained, Netanyahu came out and he cancelled that visit, because he said the abstention was a clear retreat from the previous position of the United States, and that it would hurt Israel's war effort and their bid to try and release more than 130 hostages that are still held by Hamas. In Washington, the White House spokesperson, John Kirby, he said that the vote doesn't represent any kind of shift in policy and that nothing has changed. But in reality, if you look at how the U.S. position, I guess, has evolved on language being used at the U.N., the resolution that was passed was very strong. What does this resolution actually do for the situation in Gaza? So there has been a little bit of debate over whether this resolution is binding or non-binding. Most people would argue it's binding, but ultimately it's probably not going to change the situation on the ground. There's no sort of punishment if it's not implemented. It's not like the United States is about to let the Security Council impose sanctions on anyone if there is a safe fire in Gaza. Donald Trump has been told he has to pay less than half of what he previously owed in a civil fraud judgment against him. He also has an additional 10 days to come up with the smaller bond of $175 million. But in another New York court, it was confirmed the former president's hush money criminal trial is set to begin on April 15th. Florida is set to ban social media for users under 14 and requires those younger than 16 to get parental permission or face account termination. Governor Ron DeSantis vetoed a more strict version of the bill last month. The law takes effect July 1st. Properties owned by Sean Diddy Combs in LA and Miami have been raided by federal agents. It follows a lawsuit filed against Combs by a former girlfriend in federal court in November, accusing him of engaging in sex trafficking. Combs says he's innocent and that his accusers are seeking a quick payday. US and UK authorities are accusing China of a broad cyber espionage campaign, targeting lawmakers, academics, journalists and defense contractors. Chinese diplomats in both countries are dismissing the allegations. New Zealand has also raised concerns with China about its involvement in a state-sponsored hack on its parliament in 2021. Adam Newman is a step closer to regaining control of WeWork. He's offered more than $500 million to buy back the office sharing startup he co-founded. It's another twist in the WeWork saga. It was once valued at $47 billion, but created after it tried to go public in 2019. Newman's pursuit of expansion at the expense of profit bid to his ouster the same year, and it filed for bankruptcy in 2023. It remains to be seen how Newman is going to finance his bid or whether it will be accepted. US intelligence officials say Russia's security service has been busy, detaining opponents of President Putin and hunting down Ukrainian saboteurs, which may be white overlooked other threats, including that posed by ISIS-K. Islamic State Coruscant or ISIS-K has claimed responsibility for Friday's mass shooting, when more than 130 people were killed and almost 200 injured. So who are ISIS-K? YP Rajish is a New Delhi. They have grown in size and spread outside of Afghanistan and Pakistan into the Central Asian region. We know that they have been recruiting people from Central Asian Republics like Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and they could be using these recruits to operate beyond the borders in Russia. What impacted the US withdrawal from Afghanistan have on the group? This branch of ISIS existed before the withdrawal of the US forces from Afghanistan. However, they seem to have grown in strength after that, although the Taliban claims that they have fucked them and pushed them out of the main provinces. There has been a lot of proliferation of arms and ammunition in the aftermath of the withdrawal, which they seem to have got their hands on and have been using them. What can you tell us about their leader? The leader who heads ISIS-K right now, Sanawla Gafari, is the third chief of this group. He's supposed to be 29 years old. He is Afghan. Our reporting tried to establish his ethnicity and we found that he probably has some centralization ethnicity, which could be Tajik or Uzbek, because he's a very shadowy figure. Very little is known about him. He was in Afghanistan until sometime last year and could be based somewhere in the Badlands of Pakistan, in the province of Balochistan. But we cannot say for sure about that because the Pakistani authorities have not commented on that. Boeing CEO Dave Calhoun is stepping down, as the plane maker finds itself in a full-blown crisis over safety concerns. The company's board chair and head of commercial planes business are also leaving. scrutiny has mounted after the mid-air panel blowout in January on a 737 max plane. David Shippetson covers the transportation industry. David Calhoun says leaving by the end of the year was his decision. But what does this tell us about the situation Boeing finds itself in? Boeing is really as in turmoil in the number of fronts. First with regulators, Justice Permanas investigating the MAX9. The FAA has barred the expanding production of the MAX as they demand this 90-day quality improvement program. They're not even building the 38 planes per month, but the FAA says they can build some 37s. And the airline customers are really angry about the fact that they're not getting the planes. They were promised. And as a result, we're going into a very busy anticipated potentially record-breaking summer travel season. They're not going to have the planes they anticipated. Is Calhoun's departure the first step in fixing whatever is plaguing Boeing? The fundamental question of Boeing is what is the problem with the culture that has led to serious quality problems? Right? If you listen to the FAA administrator, Mike Whitaker, who I talked to last week, and he raised one thing that I'd say seems simple, but does raise broader questions is that when he went to the Boeing factory and retin-washed it where they built the 737, they didn't do a safety briefing before it's the tour started and that's a sort of standard thing in aviation. The fact they didn't do that really caught the attention of the FAA. And that is your Tuesday. Remember to stay across developing stories throughout the day, you can head to roises.com. We'll be back tomorrow with everything you need to know to stay across what's happening in the world all in 10 minutes. And don't forget to subscribe to Roises World News Daily Podcast on your favourite podcast player or download the Roises app.