 Today, Kamala Harris calls for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza as the US air drops aid into the enclave. France is set to become the first country in the world to make abortion a constitutional right. Investors aren't holding their breath for bazooka-style stimulus as China's parliament gathers for its annual meeting. And how climate change is affecting the Arctic Fox. It's Monday, March 4th. This is RoiT his world news, bringing you everything you need to know from the front lines in 10 minutes, every weekday. I'm Kim Vannell and London. And I'm Carmel Kremens in Dublin. This episode is brought to you by UI Path. Today, 90% of the Fortune 500 are accelerating human achievements simply, with UI Path. The world's number one AI-powered business automation platform, UI Path, the foundation of innovation. And given the immense scale of suffering in Gaza, there must be an immediate ceasefire. Or at least the next six weeks, which is what is currently on the table. Vice President Kamala Harris is showing the most forceful demand yet from the White House over the war in Gaza. He meets with Israeli war cabinet member Benny Gantz in DC today. The meeting comes after a weekend of destruction and desperation. Strikes on the offer, the last refuge of people fleeing for safety killed dozens. Including Rania Abel-Ansa's twin babies, their tiny bodies now wrapped in white shrouds, pajamas visible underneath. Survivors are left starving. On Saturday, screams rang out as civilians battled to reach ready meals, air dropped by the US. James McKenzie is Reuters' bureau chief for Israel and the Palestinian territories. James, what should we make of Kamala Harris' comments? I think what they show is the frustration that's building up in Washington and the sort of horror that's growing in different places around the world at the extent of this crisis that's building up in Gaza. Kamala Harris is blaming Hamas for not agreeing to the terms of a ceasefire. Earlier reports suggested it was the Israelis not coming to the table. Where are the negotiations at? The fact is they haven't reached a point where both sides need to agree to deal. I'm not sure that we know enough about what exactly is going on in these talks to be able to sort of conclusively pin the blame on one side or another side. The US air dropped some 38,000 ready meals into Gaza over the weekend. What does that tell us? It was very telling. These kind of air drops are usually done in the last resort. It's kind of seeing some of the other times the US military's dropped MREs were in North and Iraq in the 90s after the first Gulf War or in Afghanistan in 2001. The fact that just across the border there's columns of aid trucks waiting to go into Gaza while they're forced to do these air drops is just a mark of how blocked the whole political and administrative situation around getting this aid has become. France is set to become the first country in the world to enshrine the right to abortion in its constitution. Lawmakers are expected to vote in favor of the move in a special session of parliament today at the Palace of Versailles. Richard Locke is in Paris. Richard, why is President Emmanuel Macron doing this now? The catalyst in fact came from across the Atlantic Ocean after the US Supreme Court's decision in 2022 to overturn the landmark row versus Wade ruling. Following that here in France, numerous draft bills were proposed to cement abortion rights in this country's founding document. So that this freedom would not be repealed by some French future French government. This is a move that opinion polls suggest is supported by 86% of the country. Those of poll after that US move in which nearly nine and ten respondents said they would support such an act. Again, quite surprising when you think that this is a predominantly Catholic country. The Supreme Court has signaled it will issue rulings on Monday, one of which could be a decision on whether Colorado can kick former President Donald Trump off the primary ballot. Colorado is one of 15 states holding primary elections on Super Tuesday and Trump is currently on the ballot there. Nikki Haley, meanwhile, has won her first victory of the 2024 campaign. She beat Donald Trump in Washington, DC, a small, symbolic success in her bid to become the Republican presidential nominee. Pakistan's new prime minister Shabad Sharif promising reforms. Sharif was elected by a new parliament weeks after a contentious election. This is his second term as prime minister, beating out the candidate backed by former prime minister Imran Khan. A warning from South Korea's health minister. Chouk-you Hong says the government will start legal action against trainee doctors who've walked off the job. 70% of the country's resident and intern doctors are on strike, protesting the government's plans to boost mid-school admissions. Thousands of delegates from all over China are descending on Beijing for Tuesday's opening session of parliament. The meeting will be scrutinized for clues on how President Xi Jinping plans to deal with China's economic problems. Marius Saharia is in Hong Kong and will be watching the speeches. What investors have been calling for more than a year is a clear roadmap for resolving the property crisis as well as for bold policy moves that solve some of China's structural issues. Premier Li Chong, Xi's number two will outline China's policy priorities for the year. What can we expect? Analysts do expect policymakers to deploy moderate amounts of fiscal and monetary stimulus this year, but they also expect them to avoid the kind of splurge on investment and construction that we've seen, for instance, after the global financial crisis because their policy ammunition is limited by major amounts of debt accumulated in the local government sector. We heard today that Li isn't going to hold a press conference. Has that exacerbated concerns about a lack of transparency around policymaking? This breaks with the tradition maintained for three decades. These press conferences gave the media a rare opportunity to ask questions about government policy. Some analysts raised concerns about transparency and access to information, but authorities say there would be more briefings this year where senior officials can discuss various issues of length. So it remains to be seen how open policy makers will be in the end about discussing the economic difficulties that they're facing. In a remote and cold region of Norway, conservationists are fighting to save one of nature's most secretive animals, the Arctic Fox. Hunting and now climate change is a threat to the 300 or so left in Scandinavia. Lisi Nisner has visited special breeding grounds where the animals are raised before being released into the wild. The region they live is a mountainous region where it's very cold and temperatures can easily drop to minus 25, 30 degrees during winter. So there's a lot of snow and with a lot of snow I mean meters of snow, harsh winds. That's why the Arctic Foxes actually come with lashed white during winter. So it's not easy to spot them. So in these 18 closest, the eight couples live mainly inside their dens on the ground. I would describe it as a mixture of a dog, a cat and a fox and it's very rewarding to monitor them because they have this typical chump which is very nice to see. They shout between the enclosures to keep them or make them each other aware of threat or something happening. Conservation biologist Christine Oveland told me that climate change is a severe threat for the Arctic Fox. There's a roundings warm and as rodents and food supply are less than it was before. If we get warmer and more unstable climate where you get snow melt and you get icing on the ground that is going to affect how well the rodents can survive. I first saw the Arctic Foxes in March 2023 and was lucky and could see the mating. I went back in July 2023 to see the puppies growing up and that was very very cute so I want this is a pet now. And finally went on a trip 500 kilometers by car south of Uptal to a national park where they have been released into freedom. This episode is brought to you by progressive insurance. Most of you listening right now are probably multitasking. Yet while you're listening to me talk you're probably also driving, cleaning, exercising or maybe even grocery shopping. But if you're not in some kind of moving vehicle there's something else you can be doing right now. Getting an auto quote from progressive insurance. It's easy and you could save money by doing it right from your phone. Drivers who save by switching to progressive save nearly $750 on average and auto customers qualify for an average of seven discounts. Discounts for having multiple vehicles on your policy being a homeowner so just like your favorite podcast progressive will be with you 24 7 365 days a year so you're protected no matter what multitask right now quote your car insurance at progressive.com to join the over 28 million drivers who trust progressive progressive casualty insurance company and affiliate's national average 12 month savings of $744 by new customer surveyed who saved with progressive between June 2022 and May 2023 potential savings will vary discounts not available in all states and situations. That's it for Monday we'll be back tomorrow with our daily headline show. To stay ahead of what's going on in the world listening for 10 minutes every week day and don't forget to subscribe on your favorite podcast player or download the Reuters app.